
1. Section 1, Module 1: Reading and Writing / unknown (68) 2. Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing / easy (68) 3. Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing / hard (50) 4. Section 2, Module 1: Math / unknown (70) 5. Section 2, Module 2: Math / easy (72) 6. Section 2, Module 2: Math / hard (53)

Section: Section 1, Module 1: Reading and Writing, Difficulty: unknown (68 questions)
1. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The pineapple was domesticated in South America. Its physical structure is no longer identical to the structure of the wild plant it is descended from. Summer squash also ______ its wild ancestor. That ancestor plant had a hard rind and bitter flesh. Indigenous people in eastern North America carefully bred the crop until it had a soft rind and mild-tasting flesh. A. varies from B. helps with C. argues with D. reacts to
Answer: A
2. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The adult emperor moth appears brown and orange with multiple eyespots as a result of pigmented scales that cover its wings and body. Although scales are widely known as the source of a moth's color and pattern, the ______ of these scales goes beyond visual display: they also absorb the sun's heat for moths active during the day. A. tendency B. attractiveness C. utility D. frailty
Answer: C
3. As used in the text, what does the word "good" most nearly mean? The following text is from Charles Chesnutt's 1905 novel The Colonel's Dream. Mr. French and Mr. Kirby work together.
Mr. French, the senior partner, who sat opposite Kirby, was an older man--a safe guess would have placed him somewhere in the debatable ground between forty and fifty; of a good height, as could be seen even from the seated figure, the upper part of which was held erect with the unconscious ease which one associates with military training. A. Reliable B. Well-behaved C. Talented D. Considerable
Answer: D
4. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Despite a growing view among young people and others in South Africa that celebrated anti-apartheid leader Nelson Mandela should have taken greater strides as president to effect more substantive structural changes in the country's stratified society, years after his death in 2013 Mandela continues to be ______ by many worldwide. A. evaluated B. criticized C. lauded D. reinterpreted
Answer: C
5. Which choice best states the main purpose of the text? The following text is adapted from Eugene O'Neill's 1920 play Beyond the Horizon. Andrew and Robert Mayo are brothers who grew up on their family's farm.
ANDREW: Farming ain't your nature. There's all the difference shown in just the way us two feel about the farm. You--well, you like the home part of it, I expect; but as a place to work and grow things, you hate it. Ain't that right? ROBERT: Yes, I suppose it is. For you it's different. You're a Mayo through and through. You're wedded to the soil. You're as much a product of it as an ear of corn is, or a tree. Father is the same. This farm is his life-work. A. It illustrates that two characters share a goal. B. It shows how two characters solved a mystery. C. It describes a place two characters visited on vacation. D. It emphasizes a difference between two characters.
Answer: D
6. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? In the past, historians who wanted to examine Frederick Douglass's diary and other personal papers had to visit the Library of Congress in Washington, DC, to view them on microfilm (film containing scaled-down reproductions of documents). But traveling to the library often added time and costs to research projects. Now, by going to the library's website, researchers can access digitized versions of Douglass's papers without physically going anywhere. A. It gives information about a famous person. B. It explains the meaning of a word. C. It describes a debate among historians. D. It summarizes an unexpected finding.
Answer: B
7. Which choice best states the main purpose of the text? Built in the 1970s, Raccoon Mountain is a pumped-storage hydropower facility (a "water-battery") located in the United States along the Tennessee River. When energy demand is low, excess power from the regional electric utility's nuclear plants is used to pump water (from a lower reservoir filled from the Tennessee River) up a shaft to the summit lake, where the water is stored as gravitational potential energy. When energy demand peaks, the water drains down from the summit lake, spinning turbines and generating upward of 1,700 megawatts of power--enough to power one million homes for twenty hours. A. To point out the differences between two methods of energy generation B. To explain the basics of how a specific energy technology works C. To discuss the benefits of a new energy technology D. To encourage regional electric utilities to build energy storage facilities
Answer: B
8. Based on the texts, how would the author of Text 2 most likely respond to the overall characterization in Text 1 of the publicity campaign? Text 1 Middlemarch, Cecilia De Noel, and twenty-three other works of the late 1800s and early 1900s were rereleased in 2020 as publicity for a prestigious prize for women writers of fiction. Recognizing that women long had to use male pseudonyms for their works to be granted serious consideration (by publishers and readers alike), the campaign restored the authors' given female names in place of such pseudonyms and brought visibility to identities that should not have been hidden.

Text 2
The belief that women historically were barred from publishing under names perceived as female is persistent. That it is also an overgeneralization becomes obvious when considering writers such as Elizabeth Barrett Browning, who published Poems and many other works under her own name in the 1800s, and Sara Payson Willis, who elected to use the female pseudonym Fanny Fern for her novels and newspaper columns in the mid-1800s.
A. By suggesting that Barrett Browning and Willis are among the historical examples that challenge the assumption about the historical use of pseudonyms by female writers that is presented in Text 1
B. By agreeing that the authors of Middlemarch, Cecilia De Noel, and the other works referred to in Text 1 were not afforded the same opportunities as Barrett Browning and Willis to shape their own representations when publishing
C. By asserting that while it is clearly inappropriate to conclude that Barrett Browning was motivated by the same set of factors as the authors of the works discussed in Text 1 to publish under the names they did, it is appropriate to conclude that Willis was
D. By acknowledging that the circumstances of publication for Barrett Browning and Willis differed from those for the authors whose works are the focus of Text 1, given that Barrett Browning and Willis each published multiple works
Answer: A

9. Which choice best states the main topic of the text? When people think of dinosaurs with feathers, they typically think of winged dinosaurs, such as the bat-like Yi qi. However, many dinosaurs that didn't have wings also had feathers on their bodies. For instance, research indicates that the wingless, herbivorous Kulindadromeus likely had feathers. A. Dinosaurs with feathers B. Animals without feathers C. The most valuable fossil D. Bird species
Answer: A

10. Based on the text, why does Don Mariano push aside the furniture on the piazza? The following text is from María Amparo Ruiz de Burton's 1885 novel The Squatter and the Don.
Don Mariano Alamar was silently walking up and down the front piazza of his house at the rancho; his hands listlessly clasped behind and his head slightly bent forward in deep thought. He had pushed away to one side the many arm-chairs and wicker rockers with which the piazza was furnished. He wanted a long space to walk. That his meditations were far from agreeable, could easily be seen by the compressed lips, slight frown, and sad gaze of his mild and beautiful blue eyes. A. He feels that walking an uninterrupted path will help him think through a difficult issue. B. He is determining which pieces of furniture to dispose of. C. He wishes to create the impression that he has a large extended family. D. He wants to make space so that he can engage in vigorous exercise.
Answer: A

11. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Average Hours Worked per Person per Year in 1950 and 2017

Country 1950 2017 Change in hours Percent change in hours

United Kingdom 2,184 1,670

-514

-24%

Australia

2,178 1,731

-447

-21%

Germany

2,427 1,354

-1,074

-44%

Mexico

2,432 2,255

-177

-7%

Calculations may be inexact due to rounding.

A student in an economics course is examining the decline since 1950 in average hours worked per person per year in various nations due to both increased productivity and the adoption of policies that limit working hours. The first task in this investigation is to determine how the decline in the United Kingdom compares to that in other countries. The student finds that ______

A. though the percent decrease in hours worked in the United Kingdom was greater than that in Germany and Mexico, it was less than that in Australia.

B. though the percent decrease in hours worked in the United Kingdom was less than that in Germany, it was greater than that in Australia and Mexico.

C. the decline in number of hours worked was greater in the United Kingdom than it was in Germany, Australia, or Mexico.

D. while the number of hours worked rose in the United Kingdom from 1950 to 2017, it declined in Germany, Australia, and Mexico.

Answer: B

12. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the comparison?

Impact of Three Key Industries on Oklahoma Economy in 2017

Industry Construction Professional services Tribal economic activity

Approximate total contribution by industry
$6,797,300,000 $7,694,000,000
$7,312,400,000

Number of people employed by industry 77,247 69,846
51,674

Average contribution per employee by industry $87,994 $110,157
$141,510

The nearly forty tribes located in Oklahoma, including the Chickasaw Nation and the Quapaw Tribe, operate numerous businesses, employ tens of thousands of people, and generate billions of dollars in revenue. A student in an economics class is researching the tribes' collective activity as a single industry. The student wants to compare that industry's role in Oklahoma in 2017 with the roles of other industries in the state. Looking at a table with information about three industries, the student finds that compared with the other two industries, tribal economic activity ______

A. ranked highest in all three economic measures listed in the table.

B. employed the same number of people as construction.

C. made the lowest total contribution by industry.

D. made the highest average economic contribution per employee.

Answer: D

13. Which statement, if true, would best illustrate the challenge described in the text?
A creole language is an amalgam of a lexifier, or primary contributor of grammar and vocabulary, with one or more substrates, or secondary contributors. Englishlexifying creoles in the Caribbean, such as Jamaican Patois, rely on West African substrates, while Hawaiian Pidgin relies on `lelo Hawai`i, the Polynesian language of the Native Hawaiian people, with further contributions from Cantonese and other East Asian languages, Portuguese, and Spanish. This is a heterogeneous history, even for a creole language. Moreover, numerous similarities are found among the East Asian substrates, as well as between Portuguese and Spanish. Thus, it can be challenging to credit certain words or features of grammar or pronunciation to any one substrate.
A. Stative structures in which verbs modify subjects and serve a descriptive function comparable to that of adjectives are hallmarks of Hawaiian Pidgin as well as of East Asian languages such as Cantonese, yet the syntax of Hawaiian Pidgin's stative structures confirms their origin in `lelo Hawai`i.
B. Hawaiian Pidgin's substitution of "d" for the voiced "th" consonant (as used in "that") and of "t" for the unvoiced "th" consonant (as used in "thick") can be credited to the absence of "th" consonants in `lelo Hawai`i, though most other Polynesian languages lack "th" consonants too.
C. As is also the case with some first-language speakers of Jamaican Patois, many first-language speakers of Hawaiian Pidgin align their pronunciation, word choice, and syntax more closely with English in certain conversational contexts than in others.
D. The usage of the Hawaiian Pidgin verb "ste" to convey a temporary state, as in the statement "da watah ste cold" (the water is cold), most nearly resembles that of the `lelo Hawai`i verb noho, though the Portuguese verb ficar and the Spanish verb estar have similar usages and may also exert an influence on "ste."
Answer: D

14. Which choice most logically completes the text?
The great blue heron and the small dark heron are long-legged birds that live in wetlands, like the Everglades in Florida. Laura D'Acunto and colleagues wanted to know how these birds choose an area in which to live. They looked at features of the birds' habitats, such as the geographic location of the area and how deep the water is during the birds' breeding season. They found that great blue herons prefer areas with deep water during breeding season, but that was not true for small dark herons. The researchers concluded that water management strategies that increase the depth of water in potential wetland bird habitats during breeding season are therefore more likely to ______
A. attract great blue herons to the area than they are to attract small dark herons to the area.
B. decrease the area's appeal to both great blue herons and small dark herons than they are to increase the appeal to either.
C. extend the average lifespan of great blue herons already in the area than they are to attract a greater number of those birds to the area.
D. attract birds that don't typically live in wetlands to the area than they are to attract great blue herons or small dark herons to the area.
Answer: A

15. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Filtration is a widely used method for removing microplastics--plastics with a width less than 5 millimeters (mm)--from waterways. However, filtration systems are typically unable to capture very small microplastics. Menake Piyasena and Nelum Perera designed a device that applies sound waves to water as it flows through a metal tube. The sound waves cause microplastics in the water to gather in the middle and along the sides of the tube. The microplastics can then be separated out by channeling polluted and clean water though different outlets. Testing indicated that the system removes even tiny microplastics, including ones as small as 10 microns, or 0.01 mm, wide. This result suggests that ______
A. unlike sound waves, filters have the ability to remove large microplastics from polluted waterways.
B. the sound wave treatment system may help solve a problem associated with filtration of microplastics.
C. directing water through filtration tubes with multiple outlets reduces microplastic pollution.
D. combining filtration with sound waves is likely the most efficient method for removing microplastics from water.
Answer: B

16. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? A professor at the University of Oklahoma, Amy McGovern works on developing artificial intelligence technology, with a specific focus on supervised machine ______ machine learning involves teaching computer algorithms to organize large amounts of data. A. learning supervised B. learning, supervised C. learning. Supervised D. learning, which supervised
Answer: C

17. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The Tuskegee University Archives' collection includes an original 1957 photograph of Martin Luther King Jr. addressing a group of Tuskegee civil rights activists. Taken by P.H. Polk, the photo ______ King in profile, the glow of a stage light casting his silhouette onto the curtains behind him. A. to show B. having shown C. shows D. showing
Answer: C

18. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Sociologist Alton Okinaka sits on the review board tasked with adding new sites to the Hawai`i Register of Historic Places, which includes the Gulick-Rowell House and the Kukui Heiau. However, Okinaka doesn't make such decisions ______ all historical designations must be approved by a group of nine other experts from the fields of architecture, archaeology, history, and Hawaiian culture. A. single-handedly and B. single-handedly, C. single-handedly D. single-handedly;
Answer: D

19. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Most of the ice found on Earth is ice Ih, distinguished by a crystalline structure in which molecules form a hexagonal pattern. Amorphous ice, on the other hand, constitutes most of the ice in the ultrafrigid environment of outer space. Defined by a disorganized molecular structure, ______ A. ice Ih differs from amorphous ice in that it possesses the thermal energy to form crystals. B. ice Ih contains crystals, whereas amorphous ice, which lacks the thermal energy to form them, does not. C. the lack of thermal energy in amorphous ice explains its inability to form the crystals found in ice Ih. D. amorphous ice lacks the thermal energy to form the crystals found in ice Ih.
Answer: D

20. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When, in 2018, scientists in Germany discovered a fossilized brittle star with three thick, spine-studded arms positioned opposite three thin, undeveloped ones, they found something never before seen in the fossil ______ clonal fragmentation, a type of asexual reproduction, an animal splits itself in two, each half then regrowing its missing limbs--just what the brittle star was doing. A. record. Evidence of cloning in B. record--evidence of cloning in C. record, evidence of cloning, in D. record: evidence of cloning. In
Answer: D

21. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Typically, upon detecting the scent of another animal, a lion will open its mouth. ______ the lion allows the scent to reach sensory receptors on the roof of its mouth. These sensors help the lion interpret the source of the scent. A. Nowadays, B. However, C. On the other hand, D. By doing so,
Answer: D

22. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? A team led by Portuguese researcher Isabel C.F.R. Ferreira found that many species of mushrooms contain chemicals called phenolic compounds, such as 5-Ocaffeoylquinic acid and kaempferol. ______ Ferreira detected 5-O-caffeoylquinic acid in Pleurotus ostreatus mushrooms and kaempferol in Sparassis crispa mushrooms. A. However, B. For this reason, C. For example, D. Nevertheless,
Answer: C

23. The student wants to emphasize a difference between the two seaweeds. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The human tongue contains taste receptors for a rich, savory flavor called umami. Umami is triggered by the compounds in a variety of foods, including pork and soy sauce. Participants in a study tasted a sample of winged kelp, a type of brown seaweed. They rated its umami intensity as moderate. The participants tasted a sample of arame, another type of brown seaweed. They rated its umami intensity as high.
A. Both winged kelp and arame are types of brown seaweed.
B. Winged kelp and arame both contain umami flavor, which can also be triggered by compounds in pork and soy sauce.
C. Participants in a research study found winged kelp, a type of brown seaweed, to have moderate umami intensity, while arame's umami was more intense.
D. Some types of brown seaweed, like winged kelp and arame, trigger umami flavor in human taste buds.
Answer: C

24. The student wants to identify the title of J.D. Salinger's first published short story. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
J.D. Salinger was an acclaimed writer. His first published work of fiction was a short story. It was called "The Young Folks." It first appeared in Story in 1940. A. In 1940, a short story by J.D. Salinger appeared in Story. B. Acclaimed writer J.D. Salinger's first published work of fiction was a short story. C. J.D. Salinger's first published work of fiction appeared in 1940. D. J.D. Salinger's first published short story was called "The Young Folks."
Answer: D

25. The student wants to emphasize a difference between the two scrolls. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Ike Taiga (1723-1776) was a Japanese painter. Li Bai (701-762) was a Chinese poet. Taiga created the artwork titled Landscape and Couplet of Chinese Verse. The artwork is made up of two scrolls. Scroll 1 features a painting of a lone figure walking among tall, narrow mountains. Scroll 2 features a poem from Li Bai that is about being in nature.
A. In Landscape and Couplet of Chinese Verse, one scroll features a painting, while the other scroll features a poem.
B. Ike Taiga created Landscape and Couplet of Chinese Verse, which is made up of two scrolls that each depict nature.
C. Made up of two scrolls that each depict nature, Landscape and Couplet of Chinese Verse was created by Li Bai.
D. One of the two scrolls that make up Landscape and Couplet of Chinese Verse features mountains, and one features a portrait of poet Li Bai.
Answer: A

26. The student wants to provide evidence that Randmaa's journey was a true circumnavigation. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Uku Randmaa is an Estonian sailor who completed a true circumnavigation of the globe in 2019. One of the requirements of a true circumnavigation is that the journey must begin and end in the same port. Randmaa's circumnavigation began and ended in the port of Les Sables d'Olonne, France. On his journey, Randmaa passed the three great capes of the Southern Ocean. His journey took 254 days.
A. To be considered a true circumnavigation, a journey must begin and end in the same port, and Randmaa's lasted 254 days.
B. Randmaa began and ended his trip in the same port (Les Sables d'Olonne, France), one of the requirements for a true circumnavigation.
C. Randmaa is an Estonian sailor who completed a true circumnavigation that ended in Les Sables d'Olonne, France.
D. A true circumnavigation, Randmaa's journey also passed the three great capes of the Southern Ocean.
Answer: B

27. The student wants to emphasize a similarity between Macready and Keene. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
In the 1800s, some actors also managed theaters. They were known as actor-managers. William Charles Macready managed the Covent Garden Theatre (London) from 1837 to 1839. He starred in a production of Henry V there in 1838. Laura Keene managed Laura Keene's Theatre (New York) from 1856 to 1863. She starred in a production of The Seven Sisters there in 1860.
A. In the 1800s, some actors (such as Keene) also managed theaters; they were thus considered actor-managers.
B. As actor-managers, both Macready and Keene managed theaters where they also performed.
C. Both Macready and Keene were managers of the Covent Garden Theatre in London, where they also starred in various plays.
D. Macready managed a London theater, whereas Keene managed one in New York.
Answer: B

148. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The recovery program led by Marisel López-Flores has dramatically increased the population size of the endangered Amazona vittata, the endemic parrot of Puerto Rico. Given that A. vittata corresponds in physiology, behavior, and ecology to endangered Amazona species elsewhere in the Caribbean, the conservation approach developed by López-Flores may be ______ across the genus. A. replicable B. comprehensible C. observable D. redeemable
Answer: A

149. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Although oil shocks--such as the 45% rise in oil prices from November 1980 to February 1981--can strongly affect individual consumers, Gbadebo Oladosu and colleagues have shown that at the level of national economies, their effects are often quite ______. The effect of recent oil shocks on the gross domestic product of the United States, for example, was only slightly greater than zero. A. persistent B. subdued C. beneficial D. variable
Answer: B

150. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Steiger Butte Drum, a family ensemble from the Klamath Tribes of the Pacific Northwest, collaborated with composer Michael Gordon to create Natural History, a work featuring traditional drumming and vocals alongside an orchestra and chorus. Steiger Butte Drum's participation is ______ to the piece: members not only contributed to its composition but also must be included in all performances. A. analogous B. tangential C. integral D. subsequent
Answer: C

151. Which choice best states the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? The following text is adapted from Susan Glaspell's 1917 play The People. Oscar, a writer at a newspaper called The People, is writing at a table when a woman enters the office to speak to the editor.
THE WOMAN: This is the office of The People? OSCAR: Um-hum. THE WOMAN: (Excitedly.) I came to see the author of those wonderful words. OSCAR: (Rising.) Which wonderful words? THE WOMAN: About moving toward the beautiful distances. OSCAR: (Loses interest and returns to his writing.): Oh. Those are Mr. Wills' wonderful words. THE WOMAN: Could I see him? OSCAR: He isn't here yet. He's just back from California. Won't be at the office till a little later. A. To indicate that Oscar had been expecting the woman to come to the office B. To suggest that Oscar is annoyed that the woman's visit has interrupted his work C. To depict Oscar as a polite and professional representative of the newspaper D. To show Oscar's brief hope that the woman is fond of his writing
Answer: D

152. Which choice best states the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? Vertical gene transfer involves the transmission of genetic material from a parent to offspring; horizontal gene transfer, on the other hand, involves the exchange of genetic material between organisms not in a parent-offspring relationship. While horizontal gene transfer is common among prokaryotes--single-celled organisms, such as the bacteria Comamonas aquatica and Moraxella caviae--it has rarely been observed among eukaryotes (multicellular organisms). However, new studies suggest that horizontal gene transfer is more common in eukaryotes than originally thought. A. It explains a biological process by contrasting it with a somewhat similar process. B. It explains why a common perception of a biological process is flawed. C. It proposes a direction for future research into a biological phenomenon. D. It argues that two biological phenomena are more similar than they may initially appear to be.
Answer: A

153. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?

Some researchers posit that the species inhabiting the South Pacific island of Grande Terre belong to clades that predate the island's split from remnants of the former supercontinent Gondwana around 80 million years ago. A study conducted by Yohan Pillon et al. found, however, that the crown age (the age of the most recent common ancestor of all living and extinct species in the clade) of the clade of Geissois trees on Grande Terre is 7.3 million years; Pillon et al. further found that the crown age of the clade of Geissois trees in the South Pacific generally is also approximately 7.3 million years. A. It identifies a discrepancy between a hypothesis some researchers have proposed and related research findings, then explains that discrepancy. B. It presents a possibility that some researchers have raised, then describes a study that clarifies their reasons for doing so. C. It explains a view some researchers have advanced, then discusses study results that led them to reconsider that view. D. It describes an idea that some researchers have put forward, then presents study results that are incompatible with that idea.
Answer: D
154. Based on the texts, how would Ert and Erev (Text 2) most likely respond to Kahneman and Tversky's finding (Text 1)? Text 1 In a seminal 1979 study, Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky presented students and college faculty from Israel, Sweden, and the United States with hypothetical questions involving financial decisions. Finding that participants' responses indicated that losses have a greater psychological impact than equivalent gains do, the researchers formulated the concept of loss aversion, which has since informed research in fields ranging from cognitive psychology to transportation studies.
Text 2 Eyal Ert and Ido Erev conducted an experiment in which two groups of Israeli students were exposed to financial choices that involved potential losses of either relatively minor sums of money, such as 10 Israeli shekels (low-stakes contexts), or more substantial sums, such as 100 Israeli shekels (high-stakes contexts). The researchers concluded that only the latter contexts were associated with loss aversion. A. By observing that researchers' ability to assess feelings about financial decisions is contingent on gathering adequate data about gains and losses B. By agreeing that experimental results support the idea that some people tend to be more cognizant of financial losses than of gains C. By disputing Kahneman and Tversky's claim that a tendency to place excessive emphasis on financial losses accounts for the loss aversion observed in fields such as cognitive psychology and transportation studies D. By contending that the attitude toward financial losses that Kahneman and Tversky observed is contingent on the magnitude of outcomes
Answer: D
155. According to the text, what is one way that The Antelope Woman differs from most of Erdrich's work? Tracks is a 1988 novel by Ojibwe writer Louise Erdrich. It explores how historical events affect families on a reservation in rural North Dakota. Tracks is typical of Erdrich's work. Her writing usually focuses on portrayals of everyday life in Ojibwe communities. Yet some of her novels have fantastical plots and take place outside Ojibwe communities. For example, her 2016 novel The Antelope Woman is essentially fantasy fiction, and the otherworldly events in its plot are set in an urban Indigenous community in Minneapolis. A. Its main characters are Ojibwe. B. It isn't set in a rural Ojibwe community. C. It has been adapted into a movie. D. It contains very little dialogue.
Answer: B
156. The text most strongly suggests that particular aspects of Hamilton's political beliefs may have been omitted from the musical in part to achieve which effect? Lin-Manuel Miranda's 2015 hip-hop musical Hamilton depicts historical political figure Alexander Hamilton as a self-made man who, through sheer determination, transcends his humble origins to become a key participant in the founding of the United States. This depiction of Hamilton establishes him as a compelling and welldefined protagonist but obscures other facets of the historical person's views, namely his elitism and mistrust of the democratic politics of some of his contemporaries. In effect, the musical's portrayal of Hamilton fails to convey the ideological complexity that a more nuanced portrayal might have suggested. A. To suggest why certain contributions by Hamilton to US history have been overlooked B. To encourage modern audiences to emulate Hamilton's politics C. To create an unambiguous thematic presentation of Hamilton's life D. To challenge the prevailing historical consensus about Hamilton
Answer: C
157. Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the statement?
Prices of Nuts Sold by Growers in the United States,
2016/17 to 2019/20 Seasons 2

Price per pound (dollars)

1

0 016/17 2

017/18 2

018/19 2

Season

macadamias walnuts hazelnuts

019/20 2

The US Department of Agriculture's Fruit and Tree Nuts Outlook is a document that covers a variety of subjects, from the causes of reductions in grapefruit supply to the forecast for yields of apple crops. A student studying agricultural economics is consulting a graph in the document that shows the prices for which several types of nuts have been sold by growers in the United States over four growing seasons from 2016 to 2020. The student wishes to determine in which season walnuts reached their lowest price. Consulting the graph, the student finds that this season was the ______ A. 2017/18 season. B. 2016/17 season. C. 2018/19 season. D. 2019/20 season.
Answer: C

158. Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the example?

Number of individual fish observed

Fish Population in a Taiwanese Tide Pool, January 2001 to October 2001

65

60

55

50

45

40

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

001 001 001 001 y 2 ril 2 ly 2 er 2

Januar Ap

O Ju ctob

Month

combtooth blenny yellowtail sergeant rippled rockskipper

Lin-Tai Ho and colleagues counted fish in a tide pool in Taiwan at several times during the year and found that some species had a significantly higher maximum population count than others. For example, the highest count for the combtooth blenny was 62 individuals in January of 2001, whereas the highest count for the yellowtail sergeant was ______ A. 72 individuals in January of 2001. B. 15 individuals in April of 2001. C. 13 individuals in January of 2001. D. 3 individuals in January of 2001.
Answer: D

159. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Population and Population Density of African Countries in 2015

Country

Density (inhabitants/km²) Area (km²) Estimated population

São Tomé and Príncipe

189.8

1,001

190,000

Ethiopia

88.2

1,127,127

99,391,000

Mauritania

3.9

1,030,700

4,068,000

Angola

20.1

1,246,700

25,022,000

As the second-most populous continent in the world, Africa was home to an estimated 1.186 billion people in 2015. In a paper for a social studies class, a student nonetheless notes that countries with very large populations may be less densely populated than are countries with much smaller populations, as can be seen by comparing ______

A. the geographic size of Angola (1,246,700 square kilometers) with its relatively high population of 25,022,000 inhabitants.

B. Angola, which has a high population of 25,022,000 inhabitants and a relatively low density of 20.1 inhabitants/square kilometer, with São Tomé and Príncipe, which has a much lower population and a higher density.

C. Mauritania, which has a low density, with Ethiopia, which has a similar density despite both countries having different geographic sizes.

D. the populations of both São Tomé and Príncipe and Ethiopia in 2015 with their populations in 2010.

Answer: B

160. Which finding, if true, would most directly support Aburto-Oropeza and colleagues' explanation?
Declining fishing technology costs and overexploitation of near-shore fishing grounds have made isolated oceanic reefs, which often lack regulatory protections, increasingly attractive to commercial and sport fishers. A team led by Octavio Aburto-Oropeza surveyed the biomass density and species composition of two isolated reefs: Alacranes, a protected (fishing prohibited) reef 135 kilometers from the Yucatan Peninsula, and Bajos del Norte, an unprotected reef 25 kilometers further out to sea. Species at the highest level of the trophic pyramid constituted 34% of the biomass at Alacranes and 10% of the biomass at Bajos del Norte. Aburto-Oropeza and colleagues attribute this difference to the two reefs' difference in regulatory status.
A. Total biomass at Alacranes is much greater than total biomass at Bajos del Norte, though the reefs' biomass densities are similar.
B. It is somewhat more expensive for commercial and sport fishers to reach Bajos del Norte than it is to reach Alacranes.
C. Some of the species that compose the highest trophic level at Bajos del Norte are not found at Alacranes.
D. Commercial and sport fishers tend to disproportionately remove species at the highest trophic level.
Answer: D

161. Which choice most logically completes the text? Researchers Eugeni Vidal-Tortosa and Robin Lovelace looked at the relationship between street lighting in a city and people's willingness to ride a bicycle. Their results suggest that poor street lighting can deter new or inexperienced cyclists from riding in a city but has little effect on experienced cyclists. Therefore, increasing the number of streetlights in a city could potentially ______ A. decrease the number of experienced cyclists riding in the city. B. increase the number of new or inexperienced cyclists riding in the city. C. increase the number of experienced cyclists riding in the city. D. decrease the number of new or inexperienced cyclists riding in the city.
Answer: B

162. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Research into whether floating mats of macroalgae affect the prevalence of microphytobenthos (MPB)--benthic, or bottom-dwelling, microalgae--has produced varying results: Amber Hardison and colleagues determined that macroalgae do not impact MPB, whereas Emilio García-Robledo and Alfonso Corzo observed that benthic chlorophyll concentrations (a common measure of MPB biomass) decreased in the presence of macroalgae. Hypothesizing that macroalgal mats have a negative effect on MPB biomass, Alice F. Besterman and Michael L. Pace surveyed mudflats in Curlew Bay and other coastal sites in Virginia. Because Besterman and Pace did not find a significant correlation between benthic chlorophyll concentrations and the abundance of macroalgal mats, it can be concluded that ______
A. their hypothesis about the relationship between macroalgae and MPB was not supported and their finding was instead consistent with that of Hardison and colleagues.
B. although this finding was consistent with that of García-Robledo and Corzo, trends in MPB biomass are likely not a result of stresses caused by macroalgae.
C. differences between their study design and that of García-Robledo and Corzo likely explain the discrepancy in the two studies' findings about the responses of MPB to macroalgal mats.
D. rather than inhibiting chlorophyll production in MPB, as they had hypothesized, macroalgal mats may positively affect chlorophyll production.
Answer: A

163. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Many ranching terms come from Spanish. For example, the word "stockade" (a fence) ______ from the Spanish word estacada, and "cinch" (a belt) derives from cincho. This is because the first Anglo, African, and Native American cattle ranchers in the southwestern US learned the trade from Spanish-speaking Mexican vaqueros, or cowboys. A. have derived B. were deriving C. derive D. derives
Answer: D

164. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? A voluntary workforce established to make improvements to public lands, parks, and forests across the US, the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC)--though widely popular--was not without its critics. For Aldo Leopold, the CCC was implicated in what ______ "Idle CCC camps," he wrote, "presented a widespread temptation to build new and often needless roads." A. he viewed as unnecessary development. B. he viewed as unnecessary development? C. did he view as unnecessary development? D. did he view as unnecessary development.
Answer: A

165. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Though it was designated as mission ______ mission was actually the forty-sixth flight under NASA's Space Shuttle Program. A. STS-45, the B. STS-45, and the C. STS-45. The D. STS-45 the
Answer: A

166. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The epic poem Theogony dates back to the 8th century BCE. Originally ______ in ancient Greek, it has since been translated into other languages. A. is written B. had been written C. written D. was written
Answer: C

167. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Trade with neighboring civilizations contributed to the success of the Roman Empire, which reigned in the Mediterranean from around 27 BCE to 476 CE. By supplying oil, grapes, and grain to societies that lacked these valuable ______ Roman Empire grew not only in wealth but also in power and influence. A. items; the B. items, the C. items the D. items. The
Answer: B

168. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In his 2023 collection The Diaspora Sonnets, Filipino American poet Oliver de la Paz leverages the sonnet form's "diamond-like quality of precision," as he describes it. The poems often adhere scrupulously to the form's centuries-old conventions, such as its characteristic fourteen-line length. In the twelve-line poem "Diaspora Sonnet at the Feeders Before the Freeze," ______ de la Paz playfully subverts sonnet conventions, the poem's truncated length conveying a sense of abruptness. A. for example, B. similarly, C. by contrast, D. fittingly,
Answer: C

169. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Cornelia Konrads is a German sculptor who creates art that seems to be part of its surroundings. Her sculpture entitled the match is built between statues at a park in France. ______ appearing as large vases being tossed between statues at the park, it is cleverly placed into its environment, serving as an example of Konrads's approach. A. There, B. Later, C. However, D. For instance,
Answer: A

170. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to explain the advantages of onshore wind farms over offshore ones? A wind farm uses turbines to convert wind into electrical power. Offshore wind farms tend to produce more electricity than farms on land (onshore). Offshore wind farms tend to be more expensive to build and maintain than onshore ones. Muppandal Wind Farm is an onshore wind farm in Tamil Nadu, India.
A. Though they don't produce as much electricity as offshore wind farms, onshore farms are usually cheaper to build and maintain. B. Tamil Nadu, India, is home to Muppandal Wind Farm. C. Like other wind farms, Muppandal Wind Farm in Tamil Nadu, India, uses turbines to turn wind power into electricity. D. Whether onshore or offshore, wind farms harness the power of wind to generate electricity.
Answer: A

171. The student wants to emphasize how popular The Woman in White became when it was first published. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Wilkie Collins's mystery novel The Woman in White first appeared in a London literary magazine. The novel was published in forty weekly installments between November 1859 and August 1860. Every installment ended with a moment of unresolved suspense. The Woman in White became extremely popular as readers eagerly anticipated the next week's entry. The magazine's sales increased to a record-breaking 100,000 copies per issue.
A. The Woman in White became so popular that sales of the magazine it appeared in increased to a record-breaking 100,000 copies per issue.
B. Every installment of The Woman in White ended with a moment of unresolved suspense, which led readers to eagerly anticipate the next week's entry.
C. Collins's novel The Woman in White was published in forty weekly installments between November 1859 and August 1860.
D. The Woman in White, a mystery novel, first appeared in a London literary magazine.
Answer: A

172. The student wants to emphasize fluorite's Mohs scale number. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The Mohs scale of mineral hardness is a ten-point scale that orders minerals by hardness based on their ability to scratch other minerals. Minerals with larger numbers are harder than minerals with smaller numbers and can leave visible scratches on them. Minerals with smaller numbers are softer than minerals with larger numbers and cannot leave visible scratches on them. The mineral gypsum has a Mohs scale number of 2. The mineral fluorite has a Mohs scale number of 4. The mineral quartz has a Mohs scale number of 7.
A. Quartz, which has a Mohs scale number of 7, can scratch both gypsum and fluorite.
B. In the Mohs scale of mineral hardness, quartz (7) is ranked higher than gypsum (2).
C. Fluorite has a Mohs scale number of 4, which means that it is harder than gypsum (2) but softer than quartz (7).
D. Fluorite, gypsum, and quartz can be ordered by their ability to leave visible scratches on other minerals.
Answer: C

173. The student wants to emphasize the aesthetic qualities of SMA by quoting Knight. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Stop motion animation (SMA) is a filmmaking technique that involves manipulating characters (puppets, clay figures, etc.) by hand in minute increments. Each change in position is meticulously captured in a series of images that, when played back, give the illusion of motion. Producer Travis Knight: "It's a process that dates back to the dawn of cinema, with a charm and a warmth and a beauty that other forms of animation...do not have. And because you effectively get one opportunity to get it right, every shot is a high-wire act." Knight: SMA is "raw and it's imperfect. It's also undeniably human."
A. The handmade, "imperfect" look of stop motion animation, says Knight, lends this "undeniably human" technique a "charm and a warmth and a beauty."
B. As Knight says, "you effectively get one opportunity to get it right" when meticulously capturing the series of images that, when played back, give it the illusion of motion.
C. With its puppets and clay figures, stop motion animation, Knight says, "dates back to the dawn of cinema."
D. Stop motion animation is imperfect, making every shot "a high-wire act," Knight says.
Answer: A

174. The student wants to provide a specific example of an isthmus. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
An isthmus is a strip of land that connects two larger pieces of land across an expanse of water. It is also known as a land bridge. The Isthmus of Potidea is located in Greece. It connects the Kassandra Peninsula to mainland Greece. A. There is a land bridge in Greece. B. In Greece, the Kassandra Peninsula is connected to mainland Greece. C. One example of an isthmus is the Isthmus of Potidea in Greece. D. An isthmus, also known as a land bridge, is a strip of land that connects two larger pieces of land across an expanse of water.
Answer: C

306. Which quotation from Cane most effectively illustrates the claim? Cane is a 1923 novel by Jean Toomer. In the novel, Toomer mentions a road in rural Georgia called Dixie Pike and describes it as having a deep connection to a faraway place, writing, ______ A. "[The wagon] bumps, and groans, and shakes as it crosses the railroad track." B. "And when the wind is from the South, soil of my homeland falls like a fertile shower upon the lean streets of [Washington, DC]." C. "The Dixie Pike has grown from a goat path in Africa." D. "One evening I walked up the [Dixie] Pike on purpose, and stopped to say hello [to Fern]."
Answer: C

316. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize the discovery of (20161) 1996 TR66 to an audience already familiar with Jane Luu?
Minor planets are astronomical objects that orbit the Sun but are neither planets nor comets. Astronomer Jane Luu has discovered many minor planets in her career. Alongside colleagues David C. Jewitt, Jun Chen, and Chadwick Trujillo, she discovered the minor planet (20161) 1996 TR66 on October 8, 1996. Alongside colleagues David C. Jewitt and Chadwick Trujillo, she discovered the minor planet (385201) 1999 RN215 on September 7, 1999.
A. Astronomer Jane Luu helped discover not only the minor planet (20161) 1996 TR66 on October 8, 1996, but also (385201) 1999 RN215 on September 7, 1999.
B. First there was the discovery of (20161) 1996 TR66 on October 8, 1996, and then on September 7, 1999, Jane Luu discovered yet another minor planet with the help of her colleagues David C. Jewitt and Chadwick Trujillo.
C. Jane Luu is an astronomer famous for her discovery of many minor planets in our solar system, including (20161) 1996 TR66.
D. On October 8, 1996, Jane Luu and her colleagues David C. Jewitt, Jun Chen, and Chadwick Trujillo made the exciting discovery of the minor planet (20161) 1996 TR66.
Answer: D

453. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Highly Traveled Commercial Airline Routes in 2017-18

Location 1 Location 2 Distance of route (kilometers) 2018 passengers 2017 passengers Domestic or international

Sapporo

Tokyo-Haneda

835

9,698,639

8,726,502 domestic

Hong Kong Seoul-Incheon

2,080

3,081,942

3,198,132 international

Kuala Lumpur Singapore

296

4,490,463

4,108,824 international

Da Nang

Ho Chi Minh City

617

3,256,718

3,210,368 domestic

A study of commercial airline routes that carried the greatest number of passengers in 2017 and 2018 shows that, in general, domestic routes (routes within a single country) carried many more passengers than international routes. However, a few international routes were so popular that they carried more travelers than some of the most highly traveled domestic routes, as can be seen when comparing the ______

A. number of passengers who traveled between Sapporo and Tokyo-Haneda in 2017 with the number who traveled between Hong Kong and Seoul-Incheon during that same year.

B. distance between Da Nang and Ho Chi Minh City with the distance between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore.

C. number of passengers who traveled between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore in 2017 with the number who traveled that same route in 2018.

D. number of passengers who traveled between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore in 2018 with the number who traveled between Da Nang and Ho Chi Minh City during that same year.

Answer: D

463. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In a 1993 study by Vales and Peek, the researchers used microhistological fecal analysis to determine the ratio of three plant subtypes (graminoids, forbs, and browse) within the diets of North American ungulates. The researchers did not perform this analysis on all such ungulates, ______ they focused exclusively on elk in Wyoming. A. for instance; B. in other words; C. however; D. regardless;
Answer: C

636. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? The following text is adapted from Daniel Defoe's 1704 nonfiction book The Storm.
If I judge right, 'tis the duty of an historian to set everything in its own light, and to convey matter of fact upon its legitimate authority, and no other: I mean thus, (for I would be as explicit as I can) that where a story is vouched to him with sufficient authority, he ought to give the world the special testimonial of its proper voucher, or else he is not just to the story: and where it comes without such sufficient authority, he ought to say so; otherwise he is not just to himself. A. Because no memories can be trusted, all historians are forced to admit that some records of events may be, in part, false. B. The only figures that a historian should quote are those who are widely viewed as credible. C. It is difficult for historians to be completely accurate, and eventually they will feel remorse for some of their work. D. Historians should clearly indicate the extent to which each of their sources is trustworthy.
Answer: D

652. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Topographical prominence is a measure of a mountain's independence from other mountains. Having 11,486 feet of prominence, ______ A. geographers have ranked Mount Hayes, a peak in the United States, as the world's 51st most prominent mountain. B. Mount Hayes, a peak located in the United States, is ranked by geographers as the world's 51st most prominent mountain. C. the list of mountains geographers rank as the world's most prominent includes Mount Hayes, a peak located in the United States, at number 51. D. the ranking given by geographers to Mount Hayes, a peak located in the United States, is 51st most prominent mountain in the world.
Answer: B

Number of species

893. Which choice best describes data from the graph that support Pötzelsberger and colleagues' conclusion?
Number of the 23 Non-native Tree Species Grown in Three Countries
16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0
Country

Italy Denmark Lithuania
Elisabeth Pötzelsberger and colleagues gathered data on 23 non-native tree species grown in Europe. They analyzed reports from Italy, Denmark, and Lithuania about the number of these species grown by the timber industries in those countries. The researchers concluded that none of these countries' timber industries grow all 23 species. A. There are species other than those reported by Lithuania that are important to its timber industry, but they're native to the country. B. Some of the species that Denmark reported are not among the 23 tree species that Pötzelsberger and colleagues were evaluating. C. Italy, Denmark, and Lithuania each reported at least 8 of the 23 species. D. Italy, which reported more of the 23 species than either Denmark or Lithuania did, reported fewer than 15 of the species.
Answer: D
900. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In their 2019 study of butterfly diversity at Rupa Lake in Nepal, researcher Alyssa B. Stewart and her colleagues counted fifteen glassy tiger ______ to the Nymphalidae family, the glassy tiger (Parantica aglea) is known to be rare. A. butterflies, belonging B. butterflies. Belonging C. butterflies and belonging D. butterflies belonging
Answer: B
1039. Which finding about the Across County Lines exhibition, if true, would most directly support the underlined claim? The Reckoning and Resilience (2022) exhibition at Duke University's Nasher Museum of Art was the first to focus entirely on North Carolina artists since the exhibition Across County Lines four years earlier. The curators of the 2022 exhibition included painters like Juan Logan, photographers like Cornell Watson, and printmakers like Ayla Gizlice. But whereas the work by Watson would have fit the theme for Across County Lines, works by Logan and Gizlice would not have. A. It included a greater number of artists than Reckoning and Resilience. B. It consisted entirely of works by photographers.

C. It consisted mostly of works by printmakers. D. It was curated specifically to emphasize works that are not owned by the Nasher Museum.
Answer: B
1050. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In the Southeast Asian country of Indonesia, the percentage of the population living in cities rose from 53.3% to 56.6% between 2015 and 2020. ______ urbanization rates climbed across Southeast Asia as a whole, rising 2.8 percentage points in that five-year period. A. Concurrently, B. In other words, C. Eventually, D. For example,
Answer: A
1198. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to introduce Rudolf Baumgartner to a new audience? Antonio Stradivari (1644-1737) was an Italian instrument maker. He made about 1,000 violins in his lifetime. Musicians prize his Stradivarius violins for their famed sound quality. The ex-Baumgartner Stradivarius is named for former owner Rudolf Baumgartner, a Swiss violinist.
A. Of the 1,000 or so violins Antonio Stradivari made, only about 500 exist today. B. Rudolf Baumgartner was a Swiss violinist who once owned a Stradivarius violin. C. Born in 1644, Antonio Stradivari was an Italian instrument maker whose violins are famous for their quality. D. The ex-Baumgartner Stradivarius is named after Rudolf Baumgartner.
Answer: B
1478. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? The following text is from Nathaniel Hawthorne's 1830 short story "Sir William Phips."
The knowledge, communicated by the historian and biographer, is analogous to that which we acquire of a country by the map,--minute, perhaps, and accurate, and available for all necessary purposes, but cold and naked, and wholly destitute of the mimic charm produced by landscape painting. These defects are partly remediable, and even without an absolute violation of literal truth, although by methods rightfully interdicted to professors of biographical exactness. A. Historians do not agree among themselves about the best methods of recording history. B. Biographers are more-skilled writers than other kinds of historians. C. Maps are more practical to own than paintings. D. Historians' fidelity to the truth often results in work that is less engaging than it could be.
Answer: D
1486. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? A senior research scientist at CodaMetrix, Cansu Sen works on developing artificial intelligence technology, with a specific focus on natural language ______ language processing involves teaching computers to understand the way humans write and speak. A. processing natural B. processing. Natural C. processing, which natural D. processing, natural
Answer: B
1492. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The Sheringham Shoal, an offshore wind farm located off the coast of England, produces about 315 megawatts (MW) of electricity per year. ______ England's Hornsea Project One offshore wind farm, which generates the most power of any single offshore farm, produces 1,218 MW of electricity. A. That is, B. As a result, C. For instance, D. By comparison,
Answer: D

Section: Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing, Difficulty: easy (68 questions)
28. As used in the text, what does the word "testing" most nearly mean? The following text is from Rudolfo Anaya's 1972 novel Bless Me, Ultima. The young narrator and his friend Cico are staring into the water of a stream in rural New Mexico.
The golden fish swam by gracefully, cautiously, as if testing the water after a long sleep in his subterranean waters. His powerful tail moved in slow strokes as he slid through the water towards us.
©1972 by Rudolfo Anaya A. Wearing out B. Defeating C. Congratulating D. Trying out
Answer: D

29. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? A number of recording artists ______ Indigenous music with other musical styles. For example, Wolastoq musician Jeremy Dutcher incorporated traditional Wolastoq songs into experimental pop on his album Wolastoqiyik Lintuwakonawa, and Tuscarora/Taíno singer-songwriter Pura Fé combined Indigenous rhythms and vocals with R&B on her album Sacred Seed. A. fuse B. analyze C. acquire D. exaggerate
Answer: A

30. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? While modern composers may often get inspiration from past greats like Ludwig van Beethoven, the extent of their influences is broad. The music of Ernesto Lecuona, for example, can be said to ______ elements of both the classical European tradition and the social, political, and cultural landscape of his native Cuba. A. defy B. neglect C. foretell D. exhibit
Answer: D

31. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Though most hoaxes perpetrated as jokes by mischievous users of Wikipedia, an online encyclopedia that almost anyone can freely edit, have quickly been detected and removed, a few invented entries, such as those for the town of Stone Ridge, Maryland, and the Civil War general George K. Broomhall, persisted on the site for many years before they were finally recognized as ______ and deleted. A. fictitious B. conscientious C. straightforward D. profound
Answer: A

32. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? In a garden, ______ the spread of unwelcome weeds such as chickweed can be difficult because weeds usually spread easily and quickly become unmanageable, making it hard to remove them completely. A. saving B. pretending C. halting D. retrieving
Answer: C

33. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text? In 1827, Rev. John Wilk and other free Black men in New York City founded Freedom's Journal, America's first Black-owned-and-operated newspaper. Wilk's accomplishment is just one example of the rich history of Black journalism in the United States. That history is preserved by the National Association of Black Journalists, which was founded in Washington, DC, in 1975 to support Black media professionals and honor people like Wilk. A. It summarizes a theory about journalism, then explains how a journalistic practice has changed over time. B. It mentions a specific achievement in Black journalistic history, then describes an organization dedicated to upholding that history. C. It describes the career of a well-known figure in Black journalism, then compares that career to one of a figure who is lesser known. D. It introduces the history of an organization honoring Black journalists, then suggests how that organization might recruit more members.
Answer: B

34. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? In 2018 Rong Jiahuan and colleagues published a study concluding that ocean acidification has a strong effect on the behavior of Acanthopagrus schlegelii, a species of fish. However, Jiahuan and colleagues' study relied on a mean sample size of only 15 fish. In a 2022 review of various scientists' conclusions about the impacts of ocean acidification on fish behavior, Josefin Sundin and colleagues caution that relying on such a relatively small sample size can increase the potential for biased analysis. Such analysis, in turn, can contribute to reports of exaggerated effects. A. It introduces a detail about Jiahuan and colleagues' study that is addressed in the sentences that follow. B. It emphasizes the threat of ocean acidification to Acanthopagrus schlegelii that is mentioned in the previous sentence. C. It offers an alternative explanation for the behavior of Acanthopagrus schlegelii that is described in the previous sentence. D. It states the conclusion reached by Jiahuan and colleagues that is elaborated on in the sentences that follow.
Answer: A

35. According to the narrator, what does her brother complain about? The following text is from Angeline Boulley's 2021 novel Firekeeper's Daughter. The narrator is an Ojibwe teenager who runs in the morning before going to school. Levi is her younger brother.
My brother complains about my lengthy warm-up routine whenever he runs with me. I keep telling Levi that my longer, bigger, and therefore vastly superior muscles require more intensive preparation for peak performance. The real reason, which he would think is dorky, is that I recite the correct anatomical name for each muscle as I stretch.
©2021 by Angeline Boulley A. A song she sings while she runs in the morning B. The late hour when she prefers to run C. The lengthy warm-up routine she does before running D. Fellow students she has befriended
Answer: C

36. According to the text, what do octopuses use to protect themselves? Animals use many objects as tools to achieve goals more easily. Such goals include grooming, finding food, and protecting themselves. For a long time, people thought tool use was unique to primates. Octopuses and other animals, though, have busted the myth that tool use requires hands. Inventively, octopuses use two halves of a seashell to provide protection or a place to hide. Palm cockatoos also get creative. They use leaves to pad their beaks when opening nuts. A. Sand B. Leaves C. Two halves of a seashell D. Feathers from palm cockatoos
Answer: C

37. Based on the text, what do many legal experts believe about the trademark "Frisbee"? Many people use the trademark "Frisbee" to refer generally to flying disc toys rather than specifically to products made by Wham-O, the company that owns the trademark. As many legal experts note, this may pose a problem for Wham-O. In the US, courts can cancel a trademark if they decide that its meaning is no longer specific to the trademark owner's products. If "Frisbee" were judged to be a generic term, as "escalator" was, other companies would be free to use it to promote similar products, making it harder for Wham-O to stand out from competitors. A. It may be at risk of being canceled. B. It is not especially memorable. C. It has multiple unrelated meanings. D. It is unlikely to be judged a generic term.
Answer: A

38. According to the table, in what year did India make the change mentioned in the text?

Year That Foreign Investors Were First Allowed to Purchase Shares

Country Year

India

1986

Argentina 1989

Nigeria 1995

In the 1980s and 1990s, many countries began allowing foreign investors to purchase shares of companies based in those countries.

A. 1983

B. 1981

C. 1998

D. 1986

Answer: D

39. Which quotation from a historian would most directly support the student's argument? Commedia dell'arte was a type of theater that emerged in Italy in the 1500s. It became popular throughout Western Europe. In commedia dell'arte, actors didn't have a script. Instead, they created their dialogue and actions onstage in the moment. Actors in these plays also usually wore stylized masks. In a research paper, a student argues that doing so affected how the actors portrayed their characters. A. "Since their faces were hidden by masks, actors in commedia dell'arte used hand gestures and other movements of their bodies to display emotions." B. "The use of masks in commedia dell'arte can be traced directly to the theater of ancient Rome." C. "After almost vanishing in the 1800s, commedia dell'arte once again became popular in Italy and Great Britain for a brief period in the 1960s and 1970s." D. "Masks are also worn in the traditional theater of China, India, and Maya communities in Mexico and Central America."
Answer: A

40. Which quotation from The Age of Innocence best illustrates the claim?
The Age of Innocence is a 1920 novel by Edith Wharton set in New York City in the 1870s. In the novel, Newland Archer attends an opera. Newland compares his intellect favorably to that of other men of New York City society who are in the audience: ______
A. "Thinking over a pleasure to come often gave [Newland] a subtler satisfaction than its realisation. This was especially the case when the pleasure was a delicate one, as his pleasures mostly were."
B. "Newland Archer felt himself distinctly the superior of these chosen specimens of old New York gentility; he had probably read more, thought more, and even seen a good deal more of the world, than any other man of the number."
C. "Singly [the men around Newland] betrayed their inferiority; but grouped together they represented `New York,' and the habit of masculine solidarity made him accept their doctrine on all the issues called moral."
D. "To come to the Opera in a [carriage for hire] was almost as honourable a way of arriving as in one's own carriage."
Answer: B

41. Which quotation from a publication by a researcher would most effectively support the student's claim? A student is writing an essay on the subject of cultured meat, which is grown in a laboratory and is intended to help reduce the number of livestock harvested for food. The student wants to make the case that cultured meat production may be useful in responding to an expected widespread change in the public's behavior. A. "A growing population that is including significantly more meat in its diet will contribute to an increasing demand for meat products in the 21st century." B. "Researchers who advocate for the development of lab-grown meat claim that it's safer than conventional meat because it doesn't come from animals raised in spaces that make them more vulnerable to illness." C. "Consumers tend to believe that using less packaging when selling meat products in stores would have a significant effect on the environment." D. "A difficulty in developing lab-grown meat that successfully imitates meat from livestock is in mimicking the way oxygen spreads through tissue in living animals."
Answer: A

42. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Many Indigenous songs serve as repositories of ecological knowledge--e.g., Karen (hta) Hin Lad Nai songs about bees and Kaluli songs about rainforest sounds. In a study by ethnobiologist Dana Lepofsky et al., a song keeper for the Kwakwaka'wakw people provided access to ancient songs referring to the people's creation of terraced intertidal gardens to foster clams for consumption. Cross-references of that information with both archaeological and paleoecological records have revealed significant increases in clam size and productivity concurrent with the most prevalent use of these clam gardens. This finding suggests that researchers should consider ______
A. the reliability of archaeological and paleoecological evidence that often underpins conclusions drawn from Indigenous songs.
B. whether the Kwakwaka'wakw people originated the method of cultivation detailed in the songs or adapted methods observed among other groups of Indigenous peoples.
C. the possibility that other songs of other Indigenous peoples transmit ecological information that has useful practical applications.
D. the strong implication that the beneficial effects are primarily attributable to ecological factors unrelated to the activities of the Kwakwaka'wakw people.
Answer: C

43. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Sunita Williams, a US astronaut, has gone on seven spacewalks. During ______ spacewalks, Williams performed important tasks outside the spacecraft, such as installing new equipment. A. that B. these C. this D. one
Answer: B

44. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? NASA's Opportunity rover first touched down on Mars on January 25, 2004. The rover spent over fourteen years gathering information about Mars's rocky surface. Scientists playfully ______ one of the rocks it found Edmund. A. named B. is naming C. has named D. names
Answer: A

45. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Most people are familiar with the song "Happy Birthday" because ______ Few, however, may know the song's origin. The tune began as "Good Morning to All," a song written by sisters Mildred and Patty Hill in the early 1890s. A. it is the most frequently sung song in the English language? B. it is the most frequently sung song in the English language. C. is it the most frequently sung song in the English language. D. is it the most frequently sung song in the English language?
Answer: B

46. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Following her debut album release in 2002, Mexican singer-songwriter Natalia Lafourcade quickly shot to fame. By 2023, she ______ one of the most celebrated musicians in Latin America, having released twelve albums and won seventeen Latin Grammy awards--more than any other female artist in history. A. will become B. had become C. will have become D. becomes
Answer: B

47. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In the Suzuki method, classical pieces like Franz Schubert's "Wiegenlied" are taught to beginning music students as young as three, while students of traditional methods often only ______ such songs at the age of five. A. to begin learning B. having begun to learn C. beginning to learn D. begin learning
Answer: D

48. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In this chapter, we will focus on Gwendolyn Brooks's poem "An Aspect of Love, Alive in the Ice and Fire," paying special attention to its first line: "In a package of minutes there is this We." We ______ our attention next to the works of Ntozake Shange and James Baldwin, two other poets associated with the Black Arts movement. A. will have turned B. turned C. had turned D. will turn
Answer: D

49. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? When the first railroads were built in Australia in the 1800s, a variety of track sizes (gauges) were used across the continent, resulting in what historians call the "railway gauge muddle." The Mackay Railway line in Queensland used narrow tracks. ______ the Yarra Valley Railway line in Victoria used broad gauge tracks. A. For instance, B. By contrast, C. In sum, D. Similarly,
Answer: B

50. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? According to Portuguese researcher Isabel C.F.R. Ferreira, the syringic acid found in almond mushrooms can protect human cells from damage. ______ the acid combats free radicals, a type of unstable molecule that can harm healthy cells in the human body. A. By contrast, B. Thus, C. To be exact, D. Still,
Answer: C

51. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? On June 10, 1963, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan received a ticker-tape parade in New York City in recognition of his status as president of India. Of the 206 ticker-tape parades held between 1886 and 2022, a number were for international leaders. ______ Radhakrishnan's parade was one of 73 honoring foreign heads of state. A. Specifically, B. Nevertheless, C. Therefore, D. In addition,
Answer: A

52. The student wants to identify what causes meanders. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
A U-shaped curve in a river channel is called a meander. A meander forms when water erodes sediment from one side of the riverbank and redeposits that sediment on the opposite side. Meanders will gradually change shape and migrate downstream over time. A river with high sinuosity has many meanders, and a river with low sinuosity has few. The Burhi Gandak River in India has high sinuosity. A. High sinuosity is caused by the formation of many meanders, or curves, in a riverbank over time. B. The erosion and redepositing of sediment from one side of a riverbank to the other forms meanders, or curves, over time. C. The meanders in the Burhi Gandak River will change shape and shift downstream over time. D. Over time, many meanders have formed in the Burhi Gandak River, a river in India with high sinuosity.
Answer: B

53. The student wants to explain an advantage of the transit method. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The exoplanet GJ 357 b (31 light-years from Earth) doesn't emit enough light to be observed by Earth- or space-based telescopes. Astronomers were able to detect the exoplanet indirectly by the transit method of planetary detection. In this method, astronomers analyzed the periodic dimming of the light emitted by a distant star. They determined that this dimming was caused by the orbit of an unseen exoplanet (GJ 357 b) passing between the star and the observation point. As of February 2024, the transit method had been used to detect 4,153 exoplanets.
A. The transit method of planetary detection was used to detect GJ 357 b, an exoplanet located 31 light-years from Earth.
B. In the transit method, astronomers observe the light emitted by a distant star for signs of dimming, which is caused by the orbit of an unseen exoplanet passing between the star and the observation point.
C. Used to detect exoplanets by the periodic dimming they cause in the light of the stars they orbit, the transit method allows for the discovery of distant exoplanets not bright enough to be observed directly.
D. As of February 2024, the transit method of planetary detection had been used to discover 4,153 exoplanets, including GJ 357 b.
Answer: C

54. The student wants to emphasize a difference between "Waterfalls" and "Imagine." Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
In music theory, the term "key" refers to the set of musical notes that forms the foundation of a piece of music. In On the Sensations of Tone (1863), German physicist Hermann von Helmholtz describes the moods of various musical keys. He describes the key of D flat major as expressing "fullness of tone." He describes the key of C major as "expressive of innocence." "Waterfalls" (1995) by TLC is a song written in D flat major. "Imagine" (1971) by John Lennon is a song written in C major.
A. "Waterfalls" is written in the key of D flat major, while "Imagine" is written in C major.
B. Helmholtz describes the mood of D flat major as expressing "fullness of tone" and the mood of C major as "expressive of innocence."
C. D flat major is the key in which "Waterfalls" by TLC was written, and its mood has been described as expressing "fullness of tone."
D. In On the Sensations of Tone, Helmholtz describes the mood of various keys, including D flat major, which he describes as expressing "fullness of tone."
Answer: A

181. Based on the texts, how would Rose and colleagues (Text 2) most likely respond to the assertion by Slater and Mann (Text 1) about the different prevalence of female birdsong in temperate and tropical areas?
Text 1
For decades, ornithologists assumed that if they saw a singing house wren--a bird species found in temperate North America--they must be observing a male trying to attract a mate or claim territory. As Peter J.B. Slater and Nigel I. Mann have emphasized, however, a similar assumption can't be made about birds in the tropics, where females sing as often as males do. Slater and Mann call for more research on this discrepancy between tropical and temperate female birdsong.

Text 2 Recent evidence shows that a female house wren is as capable of song as a male is. In fact, female birdsong is more common among temperate species than currently assumed, claim Evangeline Rose and colleagues. These female songbirds sing less frequently than males do, and in duller tones, making it "easy for researchers to miss the quiet and hidden females and focus on the loud and colorful males," says Rose. A. They would raise the possibility that the difference in prevalence may be due to differences in the timing of the mating season among temperate and tropical bird species. B. They would caution that the seeming difference in prevalence may be an artifact of researchers' tendency to study birdsong among temperate species more frequently than among tropical species. C. They would concede that the geographic difference in prevalence is real but argue that the frequency with which male tropical birds sing has been overstated by previous researchers. D. They would argue that the apparent difference in prevalence may partly reflect a difference in the ease with which female birdsong and male birdsong can be detected.
Answer: D
182. According to the text, which factors seemed to be linked to the behavior of butterflies in Abbigail Merrill and colleagues' study? Biologist Abbigail Merrill and colleagues conducted a study of how butterfly color and weather conditions relate to butterfly behavior, which wouldn't have been possible without data gathered by students and other amateur science enthusiasts in the community. Considering over three years' worth of data, the researchers found that orange butterflies were observed in the evening more often than any other butterflies, and that butterflies tended to prefer orange and red flowers on cloudy days and multicolor flowers on partly cloudy days. A. Weather conditions but not butterfly color B. Both butterfly color and weather conditions C. Neither butterfly color nor weather conditions D. Butterfly color but not weather conditions
Answer: B
322. As used in the text, what does the word "constantly" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from Willa Cather's 1912 novel Alexander's Bridge.
For the next few days Alexander was very busy. He took a desk in the office of a [Scottish] engineering firm on Henrietta Street, and was at work almost constantly. He avoided the clubs and usually dined alone at his hotel. A. Fearfully B. Continuously C. Briskly D. Imperceptibly
Answer: B
323. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?

The House on Mango Street is an English-language novella by Sandra Cisneros. It occasionally includes Spanish words and phrases. The English text surrounding these words and phrases ______ their meaning, so readers who aren't familiar with Spanish can easily read the novella. Rudolfo Anaya takes the same approach in his novel Bless Me, Ultima. A. loses B. suggests C. suspects D. purchases
Answer: B

324. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The sloping tile roofs and picturesque façade of Mission Santa Inés in Solvang, California, are enduring symbols of the Spanish contribution to Californian architecture. Elements of this style have been reproduced throughout the state--the design of the San Gabriel Mission Playhouse in San Gabriel, for example, is considered to ______ the style of the Spanish missions. A. reject B. imitate C. neglect D. renovate
Answer: B

325. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Certain features are almost always included in the designs of mosques, like the minaret (or tower), which is considered to be a ______ of mosque architecture. Even mosques that exhibit elements of multiple architectural styles, such as the KH Hasyim Asy'ari Grand Mosque, which incorporates elements from the Betawi and Indonesian Islamic styles, will also include several of these standard features. A. hallmark B. motivation C. rejection D. duplicate
Answer: A

326. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? In their study of fossils of the extinct arthropod Mollisonia symmetrica, Javier Ortega-Hernández, Sarah Losso, and team reported some obvious indications of M. symmetrica's nervous system--for example, the animal's primary nerve cord. They also saw signs of what might be a synganglion, a brain-like mass of nerve tissue, in the animal's head. This evidence is exciting because it could help us better understand how M. symmetrica is related to other arthropods, such as termites and Norway lobsters. A. It gives the definition of the term "synganglion" used earlier in the text. B. It explains why the team's finding of a possible synganglion is exciting. C. It indicates that the team's claims about the M. symmetrica fossils are incorrect. D. It states that Norway lobsters are arthropods but termites are not.
Answer: B

327. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence? A microgenre is a specialized genre consisting of a comparatively small number of stylistically similar artists. The microgenre of electronic music known as hyperpop emerged in the 2010s, with the American duo 100 gecs as an early exponent. Their combination of dense synthesizer arrangements and metallic percussion with vocals electronically shifted in pitch above the natural range of lead vocalist Laura Les exemplifies the hyperpop sound. More recently, British recording artist Charli XCX has contributed to that sound by incorporating pop melodies into it. A. It identifies an artist who has contributed a new stylistic element to the hyperpop sound. B. It asserts that the hyperpop sound hasn't changed, even though new artists have adopted it. C. It praises a particular hyperpop artist for consistently evolving through the years. D. It criticizes a later hyperpop artist for being too similar to an earlier hyperpop artist.
Answer: A

328. Based on the text, which choice best describes the narrator's house? The following text is from Rebecca Balcárcel's 2019 novel The Other Half of Happy.
I live in a tilted house. A bowling ball on our living room floor would roll past the couch, past the dining table, all the way to the kitchen sink. And if the sink wasn't there and the wall wasn't there and the bathroom behind that wasn't there, the ball would roll all the way to my room at the end of the house. That's what it's like being twelve. Everything rolling toward you.
©2019 by Rebecca Balcárcel A. It is slanted. B. It was built forty years ago. C. It is colorful. D. It has only one room.
Answer: A

330. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Members of the Girl Scouts of America, by Age Category, 1992-1995 (in thousands)

Category

1992 1993 1994 1995

Ambassadors (older than 17) 863 826 802 784

Seniors (14-17 years)

50 43 45 52

Brownies (6-8 years)

1,319 1,225 1,181 1,142

Cadettes (11-14 years)

188 168 174 172

The Girl Scouts of America is a youth organization that had just over 1 million members in 2021. A student is writing an essay on the history of the organization and wishes to determine which of four categories of Girl Scouts had the most members in 1993. (Girl Scout categories correspond roughly with ages.) According to the table, the category with the most members in 1993 was the ______

A. Brownies.

B. Ambassadors.

C. Cadettes.

D. Seniors.

Answer: A

331. Which quotation from The Man in the Brown Suit most effectively illustrates the claim? The Man in the Brown Suit is a 1924 novel by Agatha Christie. In the novel, the protagonist, Anne Beddingfeld, expresses a deep desire for excitement and a frustration with the dullness of her life, saying, ______ A. "Things that one would shrink from attempting normally are easily tackled in a flush of anger." B. "Now I am a tidy person, I like my things always arranged in a certain way and I keep them so." C. "I yearned for adventure, for love, for romance, and I seemed condemned to an existence of drab utility." D. "It occurred to me that there was an easy way of verifying whether some of my conclusions were correct."
Answer: C

332. Which quotation from an interview with a costume designer would most effectively support the student's claim?
The 1980 production of Charlie and Algernon was the first Broadway show for which Jess Goldstein was credited as a costume designer. Goldstein was among the Broadway costume designers interviewed by Sara Jablon-Roberts and Eulanda A. Sanders for their study of historical accuracy in costume design for shows with a historical setting. They found that even designers who value historical accuracy will often include contemporary design elements that don't fit with the historical period. In a research paper about theatrical costume design, a student argues that costume designers for modern productions of the musical Our Town (set in the early 1900s) sometimes include such elements unintentionally.
A. "Costumes must always reflect the correct historical period. Too often, I've seen costumes that borrow from a wide span of periods, resulting in a production with a confusing visual style."
B. "When I was designing costumes for a 2003 production of Our Town, I tried to make them as historically authentic as I could, but when I look at them now, they clearly show the influence of early 2000s fashion."
C. "One of the challenges in trying to make historically accurate costumes is that for some periods, we only know about elite fashion and not what ordinary people wore in their day-to-day lives."
D. "In my view, historical accuracy means using period-appropriate fabrics and sewing patterns whenever possible. But in many cases I simply can't, such as when a heavy, stiff fabric would be most accurate for a character in Our Town but would greatly limit the actor's ability to move."
Answer: B

333. Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researchers' conclusion? Nautilids are marine mollusks that begin growing their shells before emerging from their eggs and continue to add shell segments throughout their lifetimes. The walls between their shells' chambers are called septa, and the concentration of the isotope oxygen-18 they contain exactly reflects the isotope's concentration in the water at the depth at which the septa formed. Paleontologist Amane Tajika and colleagues examined each of the septa in two nautilid shells; finding that sample F24 had a higher concentration of the isotope than sample M02 did, the researchers concluded that F24 must have formed at a significantly lower temperature than M02 did. A. As water depth increases, the concentration of oxygen-18 increases and water temperature decreases. B. As water temperature increases, nautilids are able to concentrate more oxygen-18 into their shells. C. As water depth increases, both the concentration of oxygen-18 and the water temperature decrease. D. As the concentration of oxygen-18 in water decreases, water temperature decreases and nautilid shell growth slows.
Answer: A

334. Which choice most logically completes the text? In recent years, architects have heightened their focus on developing eco-conscious and sustainable buildings, as exemplified by Second Home Hollywood Office, a structure conceived by Selgascano. One way to accomplish this goal is through biophilic design, which seeks to augment occupants' emotional and physical wellbeing by establishing a coherent relationship among the building, nature, and human biology. Effective biophilic design is smoothly integrated into its surroundings in order to harmonize with nature; architects dedicated to this approach therefore typically avoid ______ A. researching only one location at a time so that each building design incorporates inspiration from as many different natural environments as possible. B. prioritizing the sustainability of the building materials used in their projects over their personal aesthetic principles. C. emphasizing the emotional effects a building's design would have on its occupants. D. designing a new structure without first developing an understanding of its ecological context.
Answer: D

335. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Many studies have found a positive association between levels of dissolved organic carbon and mercury in bodies of fresh water undisturbed by human activity. But Chris S. Eckley and colleagues did not find this correlation in an examination of freshwater bodies disturbed by mining, leading some scientists to hypothesize that the association could be particular to undisturbed waters. However, Heleen A. de Wit and colleagues carried out a study on freshwater bodies disturbed by logging activity that showed similar results to the studies on undisturbed waters, suggesting that ______
A. disturbances linked to mining affect significantly more bodies of fresh water than disturbances linked to logging activity do.
B. Eckley and colleagues' study used different methods to measure the concentration of mercury in fresh water than de Wit and colleagues' study did.
C. the effects of mining on the association between levels of dissolved organic carbon and mercury should not be taken as indicative of the effects of every type of human disturbance.
D. levels of dissolved organic carbon and mercury are both much higher in bodies of fresh water disturbed by mining than they are in bodies of fresh water disturbed by logging activity.
Answer: C

336. Which choice most logically completes the text? To determine if people's preferences for certain smells are affected by culture (as has long been posited by researchers), personal taste, or aspects of human anatomy, neuroscientist Artin Arshamian and colleagues investigated how people from ten diverse cultures--including urban dwellers from a large city in Thailand and urban dwellers from a large city in Mexico--perceived certain odors. Arshamian and colleagues observed that the few study participants who rated mushroom alcohol as more pleasant than vanillin shared no meaningful nonanatomical characteristics, suggesting that ______ A. the conventional view of the relationship between culture and odor preferences may be incorrect. B. additional cultures will need to be studied before Arshamian and colleagues can draw any conclusions about what influences people's perception of odors. C. people generally perceive mushroom alcohol as more pleasant than vanillin regardless of the culture in which they live. D. the influence of personal taste on perceptions of odors has long been overestimated.
Answer: A

337. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When residents of Medina, Ohio, founded their city in 1818, they chose ______ it after the Saudi Arabian city of Medina. A. to name B. named C. had named D. were naming
Answer: A

338. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Kwesi Joseph is an urban garden specialist in New York City. Working with local communities and schools, Joseph uses his expertise to help people ______ healthier gardens. A. grow; B. grow: C. grow D. grow,
Answer: C

339. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Carousel and Bounce are the informal names ______ to two small yet notable rocks found on Mars by NASA's Opportunity rover. A. gives B. given C. gave D. had given
Answer: B

340. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? On March 27, 2004, after nine years as a professional boxer, Isra Girgrah retired. The Yemeni American athlete ______ her career with a record of twenty-eight wins, three losses, and two ties. A. has been finishing B. finished C. finish D. will be finishing
Answer: B

341. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Venice, Italy, both locals and visiting travelers shop at the Rialto Market, a popular public market that ______ variety of goods, from fresh produce to specialty meats and cheeses. A. offers a B. offers--a C. offers. A D. offers, a
Answer: A

342. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The parks of Phoenix, Arizona, seem to be making people happier. In a 2022 study, researchers studying connections between the physical location in which a social media post was created and ______ contents analyzed geotagged social media posts from Phoenix. They found that posts from the city's parks contained more words associated with happiness than other posts did. A. it's B. their C. they're D. its
Answer: D

343. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? While dredging sediment on the seafloor of the South Atlantic for specimens of planktonic foraminifera, a team of marine biologists discovered a species that was unknown to the scientific community. ______ the team published the first formal scientific description of the new species, designating it Beella digitata. A. Instead, B. Subsequently, C. By doing so, D. To this end,
Answer: B

344. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? It's tempting to think that the comic strips Curtis and The Boondocks have the same main purpose--to amuse--because both feature humorous situations. ______ The Boondocks focuses just as much on challenging readers with sociopolitical commentary as it does on making them laugh. A. In reality, B. In other words, C. Likewise, D. Next,
Answer: A

345. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Pink Cone Geyser, found in Yellowstone National Park, is a cone geyser, a type of geyser that forms a mound of silica around the narrow geyser vent as volcanic rock dissolved in the water is deposited during eruptions. ______ Yellowstone's fountain geysers, such as Rusty Geyser, erupt from larger openings where water collects in a pool. A. Regardless, B. In turn, C. In comparison, D. Thus,
Answer: C

346. The student wants to emphasize a similarity between the two rivers. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The Zambezi River is in Africa. It ranks No. 32 among the longest rivers in the world. It is 2,740 kilometers long. The Vistula River is in Europe. It ranks No. 133 among the longest rivers in the world. It is 1,213 kilometers long.
A. The Zambezi River, ranked No. 32 among the longest rivers in the world, is 2,740 kilometers long.
B. The Vistula River is located in Europe, and it is 1,213 kilometers long.
C. The Zambezi and Vistula rivers are both ranked among the longest in the world.
D. At 1,213 kilometers long, the Vistula River ranks No. 133 among the longest rivers in the world.
Answer: C

347. The student wants to emphasize a difference between the two sculptures. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Time Matters... is a 2021 sculpture by German artist Jan Kuck. It is crafted from yellow neon lighting that spells out the title phrase ("time matters"). Verdurous No. 2 is a 2020 sculpture by United States artist Annesta Le. It is crafted from green neon lighting that forms an abstract squiggle shape. A. Jan Kuck and Annesta Le are artists who have used neon in their sculptures. B. Unlike Kuck's sculpture, which spells out a phrase, Le's is an abstract squiggle shape. C. Time Matters..., like Verdurous No. 2, is a sculpture. D. Both Kuck's and Le's sculptures are crafted from neon lighting.
Answer: B

348. The student wants to explain whom the award is named for and identify one recipient of it. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The A.M. Turing Award is a prestigious award given by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). The ACM gives the award for "major contributions of lasting importance to computing." It is named after groundbreaking British mathematician Alan Turing. Amir Pnueli won the award in 1996.
A. In 1996, Amir Pnueli won the A.M. Turing Award, which is given for "major contributions of lasting importance to computing." B. It was in 1996 that Amir Pnueli won the A.M. Turing Award. C. The A.M. Turing Award, which is named for British mathematician Alan Turing, was given to Amir Pnueli in 1996. D. The A.M. Turing Award is given for "major contributions of lasting importance to computing."
Answer: C

475. Based on the texts, the author of Text 1 and the author of Text 2 would most likely agree on which point?

Text 1
For thousands of years, O'odham farmers in the Sonoran desert of the southwestern US and northern Mexico have cultivated organ pipe fruit and beans, sometimes planting these species together so that the organ pipe cacti provide shade for tepary beans. Doing so helps protect tepary beans from the harshest heat and light and thereby helps prevent soil moisture from evaporating.

Text 2 Tepary beans are well adapted to growing in the desert but grow best when shaded. Inspired by O'odham farmers, who often strategically plant tepary beans in the shade of sun-hardy species like organ pipe cacti for protection from the sun and heat, Gary Nabhan and colleagues planted tepary beans in the shade of solar panels in the Sonoran desert and found that the plants grew well, suggesting to Nabhan and colleagues that the panels provide a benefit similar to that provided by organ pipe cacti. A. Organ pipe cacti can provide shade that protects tepary beans from high-intensity heat and light. B. Compared with Nabhan's approach, the O'odham approach has the advantage of producing beans. C. Organ pipe cacti grow best when planted in shaded areas, while tepary beans do not require shade to thrive. D. Nabhan's team's method could be refined to more actively prevent soil moisture from evaporating.
Answer: A

478. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Home Video Game Systems of the 1970s and 1980s

System Manufacturer System type Approximate number of units sold worldwide

Amiga

Commodore computer

1,600,000

Apple II

Apple Inc. computer

4,487,000

TurboGrafx-16 NEC

console

2,650,000

Atari 2600 Atari

console

18,450,000

A student is writing a research paper on the global rise of the home video game industry during the 1970s and 1980s. The student is surprised by differences in the number of units sold by some systems compared to those sold by others. Most remarkably, the ______

A. Apple II sold approximately 18,450,000 units, whereas the TurboGrafx-16 sold only approximately 1,600,000 units.

B. Atari 2600 sold approximately 4,487,000 units, whereas the Amiga sold only approximately 2,650,000 units.

C. Apple II sold approximately 4,487,000 units, whereas the TurboGrafx-16 sold only approximately 2,650,000 units.

D. Atari 2600 sold approximately 18,450,000 units, whereas the Amiga sold only approximately 1,600,000 units.

Answer: D

629. According to the text, what do sea otters use to open mollusk shells? Animals use many objects as tools to achieve goals more easily. Such goals include grooming, finding food, and protecting themselves. For a long time, people thought tool use was unique to primates. Sea otters and other animals, though, have busted the myth that tool use is limited to certain primates. Inventively, sea otters use stationary anvil stones to break open mollusk shells. Greater vasa parrots also get creative. They use date pits to grind seashells into calcium powder. A. Feathers from greater vasa parrots B. Date pits C. Stationary anvil stones D. Sand
Answer: C

657. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Nineteenth-century Modernista architects championed nature in their designs. Granted, the wavy staircase and ornate floral tilework of Hospital de Sant Pau, a Modernista hospital designed by Lluís Domènech i Montaner, couldn't exactly grow in a forest. ______ one sees natural influences in Domènech i Montaner's penchant for curves (rather than right angles) and plant- and animal-inspired flourishes. A. Similarly, B. Still, C. Furthermore, D. In other words,
Answer: B

692. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Highest Major Summits in India

Summit

Elevation (meters) Mountain range Prominence (meters)

Saser Kangri I / K22

7,672

Saser Karakoram

2,304

Padmanabh

7,030

Rimo Karakoram

870

Ghent Kangri

7,401

Saltoro Karakoram

1,493

Satopanth

7,075

Garhwal Himalaya

1,250

Kanchenjunga

8,586

Himalayas

3,922

Mountain summits are often described in terms of their elevation, or height above sea level. But a summit's elevation may not be as good an indication of how high the mountain appears to observers as is the summit's prominence, or its height above its surroundings, and these values can differ significantly. For example, the Indian mountain of ______

A. Saser Kangri I / K22 has an elevation of 7,672 meters and is considered the highest mountain from the Saser Karakoram range.

B. Kanchenjunga has a high prominence but is from a different mountain range than Satopanth, which has a lower prominence.

C. Kanchenjunga has an elevation of 8,586 meters but a considerably lower prominence of 3,922 meters.

D. Kanchenjunga has a much higher prominence than does Padmanabh.

Answer: C

922. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Whereas Rebecca M. Harrison and Pia Nystrom's 2001 study of captive bonobos reported more right-handedness than left-handedness, Jane Goodall's 1963 study of wild chimpanzees did not. According to a meta-analysis of studies of nonhuman primates, captive populations are more likely to be described as right-handed than wild populations are. Statistical analysis indicates a handedness study would need a minimum of 176 individuals to show a representative result; however, the study by Harrison and Nystrom included a total population of 19, and the study by Goodall included a total population of 8. This suggests that ______
A. neither the study by Harrison and Nystrom nor the study by Goodall provides sufficient evidence to make a meaningful comparison about handedness in primates.
B. the study by Harrison and Nystrom reliably represents handedness in captive primates, but the study by Goodall likely does not reliably represent handedness in wild primates.
C. the study by Harrison and Nystrom reliably represents handedness in captive primates but not in wild primates.
D. Goodall likely underestimated the prevalence of right-handedness among the wild chimpanzees in the study.
Answer: A

925. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When residents of Potosi, Missouri, founded their town in 1826, they chose ______ it after the Bolivian city of Potosi. A. had named B. to name C. named D. were naming
Answer: B

1064. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? The following text is adapted from Matthew Arnold's 1869 nonfiction book Culture and Anarchy.
The Times [a British newspaper], replying to some foreign strictures on the dress, looks, and behaviour of the English abroad, urges that the English ideal is that every one should be free to do and to look just as he likes. But culture indefatigably tries, not to make what each raw person may like, the rule by which he fashions himself; but to draw ever nearer to a sense of what is indeed beautiful, graceful, and becoming, and to get the raw person to like that. A. Most people disagree with each other on what is beautiful. B. Culture's duty is to use scientific methods to determine what is beautiful. C. The English are often subject to unfair critiques of their sense of taste. D. One of the functions of culture is to create a consensus about matters of good taste.
Answer: D

1068. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Reported Annual Travel Distances in Four Studies of Migrating Animal Populations

Species

Continent Distance (km) Measurement method

Brown bear

North America 1,325 GPS

Tibetan antelope Asia

700

RTD

Caribou

North America 4,868 GPS

Reindeer

Asia

1,200 RTD

Some studies of migrating animals measure how far the animals travel in a year by fitting individuals with GPS tracking collars. Other studies track annual round-trip distance (RTD), which is equal to double the distance separating the two habitats a population migrates between each year. A researcher argues that since GPS records all of an animal's movements, using the GPS method to track a population would result in significantly higher recorded travel distances than using the RTD method would. For example, it's very likely that the distance reported for the ______

A. Tibetan antelope would be less than 700 kilometers if the GPS method had been used.

B. caribou would be less than 4,868 kilometers if the RTD method had been used.

C. caribou would be greater than 1,325 kilometers if the RTD method had been used.

D. Tibetan antelope would be greater than 4,868 kilometers if the GPS method had been used.

Answer: B

1072. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?

When residents of Dublin, New Hampshire, founded their town in 1771, they chose ______ it after the Irish city of Dublin. A. to name B. named C. had named D. were naming
Answer: A
1364. Which choice most logically completes the text? The advent of online streaming has led many music listeners to drift away from ownership of music (through downloads or through physical media such as compact discs) and toward the streaming services LiveXLive and Tidal, among others. Datta et al. studied the impact of this change on the variety of music that listeners consume. The researchers reasoned that the ownership model of music assigns a cost per song to acquiring a variety of music, while streaming services typically charge a flat fee for access to an entire music catalog, making variety free, which suggests that ______ A. music publishers who choose to forgo releasing music on physical media are likely to see no change in revenue. B. the music choices of listeners who use streaming services would likely be more varied than those of listeners who do not use streaming services. C. listeners who prefer to purchase compact discs rather than use a service such as LiveXLive or Tidal would tend to listen to older music. D. listeners who use streaming services would be more likely to give physical copies of music as gifts to others than to purchase physical copies for themselves.
Answer: B
1500. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Whatever the general attitude toward Spike Lee's 1992 film Malcolm X and Carl Franklin's 1995 film Devil in a Blue Dress when they were initially released, both films now tend to be regarded quite ______. In 2018, for example, critics for the New York Times praised the former as "electrifying" and the latter as "picture-perfect." A. neutrally B. skeptically C. strangely D. favorably
Answer: D
1506. Which finding, if true, would most directly support the student's claim? A film studies student is researching early 20th-century film serials, which consisted of individual episodes of a single long story that were shown weekly in theaters. The Painted Stallion is a 1937 serial that, over its 12 episodes, kept its audience interested with the suspense and drama that are typical of the western genre. The student, however, claims that ultimately audiences of the time preferred resolution and closure over ongoing tension. A. The 12th episode of The Painted Stallion was the most expensive episode of the series to produce. B. Modern critics generally regard the first episode as the best installment of The Painted Stallion. C. Audiences of the time considered The Painted Stallion to belong to a genre other than the western genre. D. The 12th episode of The Painted Stallion was viewed by more people than was any previous episode in the series.
Answer: D

Section: Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing, Difficulty: hard (50 questions)
55. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Noah Fierer and colleagues ______ pots of sterilized soil with slurries of live microbes collected from soil in five sites across Colorado, including areas of ponderosa pine forest and dry pasture. Fierer and team then grew mustard plants in the pots to see if the different microbial slurries affected levels of spicy glucosinolates like 3methylthiopropyl in the plants' seeds. A. populated B. precluded C. sanitized D. estimated
Answer: A

56. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The collectibles market is one of the most difficult segments of the consumer economy to ______. Few economists would have predicted, for example, that the prices of vintage movie posters would soar in the 2010s, but soar they did. A. forecast B. avoid C. exchange D. monitor
Answer: A

57. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Derived from research conducted with factory workers from 1924 to 1933, the Hawthorne effect suggests that participants' awareness that they are being studied alters their behavior and influences study outcomes. Since then, several researchers have claimed to invalidate this phenomenon, positing that the Hawthorne effect cannot be ______ because attempts to detect it invariably involve faulty research methods. A. inculcated B. rectified C. substantiated D. hypothesized
Answer: C

58. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Paleontologists think that Anhanguera, Saltasaurus, and other long-extinct pterosaurs and sauropods may have breathed using air sacs connected to tubelike extensions inside the animals' bones. Such structures are found in modern birds, which is why some paleontologists treat the respiratory systems of birds as ______ those of Anhanguera, Saltasaurus, and other pterosaurs and sauropods. A. emissaries for B. subordinates of C. harbingers of D. proxies for
Answer: D

60. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
Advancements like the emergence of glassmaking in Mesopotamia circa 3500 BCE are overemphasized in innovation studies, contributing to the idea that technological change always brings greater complexity. Research by Nathaniel Erb-Satullo reveals an important exception: gold metallurgy flourished in the Caucasus in the Bronze Age, but a steep drop during that time (circa 1500 BCE) in objects featuring gold filigree (in which fine threads of gold are arranged in intricate patterns) and other sophisticated goldsmithing techniques suggests that simpler processes supplanted advanced methods.
A. It details the near-consensus among researchers in a particular field of study regarding how technology evolves and then indicates the controversial nature of a study challenging that broadly accepted view.
B. It summarizes the findings of several studies into the origins of a particular invention and then presents additional evidence from a more recent study that contradicts those findings.
C. It advances a claim made by researchers in one academic field about the nature of technological change and then critiques a contrasting claim presented by a researcher from a related academic field.
D. It explains that a particular interpretation of technological development has been perpetuated in an academic field and then provides a counterexample demonstrating that the interpretation isn't always accurate.
Answer: D

61. Which choice best states the main purpose of the text? In their study of the steering muscles regulating sclerites (minute hardened structures) in the Drosophila (fruit fly) wing hinge, Johan M. Melis et al. used machine learning to devise a convolutional neural network (CNN) model capable of predicting the pattern of wing motion produced by the maximum activity of the muscles. The CNN model's output aligned with results of prior studies by other researchers measuring muscle activity patterns directly--one of several indications, said Melis et al., that the model accurately represents important biomechanical processes underlying wing motion. A. To account for Melis et al.'s reliance in their study on a CNN model in lieu of direct measurement B. To provide an overview of how Melis et al. honed the accuracy of their CNN model C. To present evidence from Melis et al.'s study in support of the efficacy of their CNN model D. To compare results obtained by Melis et al. using their CNN model to prior results obtained from other researchers' models
Answer: C

62. Based on the text, why does Miguel accompany his brother to the sisters' house one day? The following text is from Julia Alvarez's 2000 novel In the Name of Salomé. The narrator and her sister, daughters of a famous poet, are being tutored by Alejandro Román.
Our tutor, Alejandro Román, brought his younger brother, Miguel, to class one day. By now I was eighteen and had learned everything Alejandro had to teach me, so I was glad for a new face. Miguel was an aspiring poet, and he had heard from his brother that the Ureña girls were none other than the daughters of Nicolás Ureña, and they were smart as clockwork. Miguel was hoping not only to meet us but to make the acquaintance of the poet himself at Mamá's house.
©2000 by Julia Alvarez A. Miguel has not received formal instruction in poetry and wants to ask the sisters' famous father to be his mentor. B. Miguel wants to recite his poems to the sisters and inquire about their perspectives on his work. C. Miguel has learned all his brother can teach him and now desires to be taught by the sisters. D. Miguel anticipates having the opportunity to be introduced to both the sisters and their father.
Answer: D

63. What does the text most strongly suggest about paintings by Roberts?
Motivated to sell as many paintings as possible, Alfred Hair, an influential figure among the landscape artists known as the Florida Highwaymen, pioneered "fast painting," which in part involved swift applications of paint. That many of Hair's acolytes, including Livingston Roberts, imitated the technique accounts in part for the impressionistic qualities that are now synonymous with the group's shared aesthetic. But not all Highwaymen fully embraced this approach; for instance, though Charles Walker was also prolific, his paintings were executed with greater attention to detail.
A. Roberts's reliance on the technique of fast painting likely accounts for his works being more aesthetically interesting than works by Walker are.
B. The lack of precision with which they were executed suggests that they are inferior to works by either Hair or Walker.
C. Although it is evident that Roberts adopted some of Hair's preferred techniques, Roberts's works are less derivative of works by Hair than is typically acknowledged.
D. Because of the manner in which they were created, they likely have visual qualities that are regarded as more typical of Florida Highwaymen paintings than the qualities in works by Walker are.
Answer: D

65. Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the assertion?

Percentage of total penalty

Tax Penalties Assessed on Private Foundations That Filed Form 4720,
by Reason, 2003-2005

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

dealing

income

ditures n

oldings

self- ted ribu le expe ss h sine

undist taxab bu ess

exc

Reason for tax penalty

2003 2004 2005

While US public charities, like Commonfund, must file Form 990 yearly with the IRS, private foundations, such as Lilly Endowment Inc., must file a different form, 990PF. In addition, foundations that engage in certain prohibited activities must also file Form 4720 and pay a penalty tax on the money involved. Private foundations are prohibited from holding excess interests in a business enterprise, "self-dealing" (conducting activities that benefit foundation insiders), making taxable expenditures such as outlays for lobbying, and failing to cross a required threshold in making charitable distributions from income. Out of the organizations that filed Form 990-PF in the years 2003-2005, ______
A. those that were also required to file Form 4720 because they had excess holdings in a business enterprise paid, on average, a larger penalty than those organizations that filed Form 4720 because they engaged in self-dealing.
B. those that also filed Form 4720 collectively paid larger penalties for failing to meet the minimum charitable distribution requirement than for other reasons.
C. a smaller percentage of those that also filed Form 4720 did so because they engaged in self-dealing than the percentage of those that filed Form 4720 because they did not meet the minimum charitable distribution requirement.
D. those that also filed Form 4720 paid a larger penalty for failing to meet a minimum charitable distribution requirement than those organizations that filed Form 990 but also filed Form 4720 for the same reason.
Answer: B

66. Assuming that the Volga and Don basins supported similarly sized hunter-gatherer populations 6,500-8,000 years ago, which finding, if true, would most directly support Courel and colleagues' explanation?
Blandine Courel and her colleagues analyzed pottery fragments from thirty-five sites across the Volga and Don river basins to determine whether the ways in which hunter-gatherer societies used pottery in these regions around 6,500-8,000 years ago were influenced primarily by local food availability or primarily by cultural factors. Analysis of organic residues on the pottery fragments showed different prevailing uses for pottery in these locations--cooking and storing terrestrial animal protein at Volga sites and cooking and storing aquatic animal protein at Don sites--which Courel and colleagues attribute to cultural differences.
A. There were many more bodies of water in a comparably sized area in the Don basin than in the Volga basin.
B. In both the Volga and Don basins, most of the sites from which pottery has been recovered appear to have been seasonal fishing and hunting encampments rather than year-round settlements.
C. The people of the Volga basin acquired the techniques used to create pottery for cooking and storing food from the people of the Don basin.
D. Across the Volga and Don basins, people had broadly similar access to the same terrestrial and aquatic animal resources.
Answer: D

67. Which finding, if true, would most directly support the scientist's conclusion?
To boost the performance of oil-absorbing resins, which are used to remove oil and other organic compounds from wastewater, one team of materials researchers created a resin with a novel--albeit very expensive--monomer (a molecule that can chemically bond with analogous molecules to form polymers) synthesized from cyclodextrin. Other researchers have produced resins consisting of various much cheaper, commercially available methacrylate monomers, including one derived from benzyl methacrylate (BZMA). Testing all these resins' capacity to absorb toluene and trichloromethane, two organic compounds, a scientist concluded that when practical considerations were taken into account, the BZMA-derived resin showed the greatest potential for use in wastewater cleanup.
A. Whereas the resin synthesized from -cyclodextrin exhibited the highest absorption capacity for toluene, the BZMA-derived resin and other resins consisting of commercially available methacrylate monomers exhibited the highest absorption capacity for trichloromethane.
B. For both toluene and trichloromethane, the BZMA-derived resin exhibited similar absorption capacity as other resins consisting of commercially available methacrylate monomers and a slightly higher absorption capacity than the resin synthesized from -cyclodextrin.
C. For both toluene and trichloromethane, the BZMA-derived resin exhibited only modestly lower absorption capacity than the resin synthesized from -cyclodextrin but higher absorption capacity than other resins consisting of commercially available methacrylate monomers.
D. Relative to the resin synthesized from -cyclodextrin and to other resins consisting of commercially available methacrylate monomers, the BZMA-derived resin exhibited superior absorption capacity for toluene but not for trichloromethane.
Answer: C

68. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Southwestern Kentucky's Livingston County is among the most rural counties in the United States: the US Census Bureau classified it as 95.4% rural in 2010. Researchers often struggle to recruit residents of counties like Livingston for inclusion in studies. Melissa Valerio and colleagues tested whether an approach called snowball sampling improves recruitment. Working in two rural counties, they recruited a few people (known as "seeds") with the characteristics desired for a proposed study and asked them to recruit additional participants from their social networks. Though the seeds were given minimal guidance, many more people they recruited had the desired characteristics for the study than would be expected by chance alone, most likely because ______
A. most seeds' social networks include some people who do not know one another and who share few characteristics.
B. the seeds' social networks tend to be somewhat smaller than the networks of people who do not live in rural areas.
C. the seeds' social networks include a high proportion of people who share characteristics with the seeds.
D. the characteristics that made the seeds desirable for inclusion in the proposed study may be unknown to some members of the seeds' social networks.
Answer: C

69. Which choice most logically completes the text?
In classical Greek and Roman mythology, female characters are typically cast as either villains lacking in psychological depth or passive victims who are marginal to these stories, which usually focus on the exploits of male characters. Recently, a subgenre has emerged in which writers reimagine these stories from the perspectives of their female characters, giving them agency and complex motivations. Purists argue that such efforts represent a distinctively modern tendency to impose our own values on past civilizations, obscuring those civilizations' beliefs. Defenders of the subgenre counter that reimaginings of the myths for new cultural contexts are almost as old as the myths themselves, suggesting that ______
A. purists are overlooking a long tradition of adapting Greek and Roman myths to focus on female characters.
B. the complex motivations given to female characters in modern retellings of Greek and Roman myths reflect a recent shift toward psychological depth in fictional representation.
C. bringing female perspectives to the forefront is not indicative of a novel attitude regarding fidelity to Greek and Roman myths' ideologies.
D. modern writers' foregrounding of female characters is chiefly motivated by a desire to counterbalance the primacy of male perspectives among earlier adaptations of Greek and Roman myths.
Answer: C

70. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The world's many geothermal power plants leverage an array of ______ the Nga Awa Purua plant uses a flash steam system that transforms high-temperature geothermal fluid into steam; in Mexico, the Cerro Prieto plant's dry steam system pumps superheated steam from a reservoir; and in the US, the Mammoth plant's binary cycle system uses lower-temperature geothermal fluid in conjunction with a secondary fluid. A. technologies, in New Zealand, B. technologies in New Zealand: C. technologies in New Zealand; D. technologies: in New Zealand,
Answer: D

71. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When a given term--"self-fulfilling prophecies" and "role models" are two well-known examples--is generally accepted and frequently used, ______ susceptible to obliteration by incorporation (OBI). In cases of OBI, widely used terms are rarely, if at all, attributed to the individuals who coined them. A. this often becomes B. it often becomes C. they often become D. these often become
Answer: B

72. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In medieval Russia, squirrel pelts were used as a commodity currency. By using specific goods like squirrel pelts as common units of exchange, commodity currency economies streamline trade, which is why they often replaced barter economies. Barter economies eschew ______ that requires what economist W.S. Jevons deems a "double coincidence of wants"--in other words, each trading party must want precisely what the other has. A. currency, in favor of a direct trade system B. currency in favor of a direct trade system C. currency, in favor of a direct trade system, D. currency--in favor of a direct trade system
Answer: B

73. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In their attempt to create a quantum random number generator, K. Muhammed Shafi et al. used a continuous-wave diode laser to fire photons at a periodically-poled potassium titanyl phosphate (PPKTP) nonlinear crystal. A plano-convex lens ______ the laser on the center of the 10-millimeter-long crystal ensured a spot size (a measure of the beam's diameter) of 85 micrometers. A. focusing B. focus C. focuses D. focused
Answer: A

74. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? For her installation The Last Cruze, photographer LaToya Ruby Frazier traveled to Lordstown, Ohio, where she documented the lives of workers at the local automobile plant. In the installation, text culled from a series of in-depth interviews with employees and their families ______ sixty-seven gelatin silver prints, highlighting the collaborative, documentary nature of Frazier's work. A. punctuating B. punctuates C. punctuate D. are punctuated by
Answer: B

75. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? A single specimen of T. parkerae, collected at a depth of 1,856 fathoms (3,394 meters) in the South Pacific, and a single specimen of G. hirsuta, collected at a depth of 620 fathoms (1,134 meters) in the North Atlantic, have been preserved as exemplars of their respective ______ former in a repository at Washington, DC's Museum of Natural History and the latter in a repository at London's Natural History Museum. A. species; the B. species. The C. species, the D. species, and the
Answer: C

76. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In a given rock formation, Fortunian rock from 538 million years ago might directly abut Rhaetian rock from 208.5 million years ago, with millions of years of material missing in between. ______ time did not stand still during these intervening years; the unaccounted-for sedimentary material was likely removed from the stratigraphic record via erosion and weathering. A. Of course, B. In particular, C. On the contrary, D. As a result,
Answer: A

77. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Architect Victor Gruen, the designer of Pennsylvania's South Hills Village shopping mall, conceived of the mall as an indoor version of the European town square, a communal space that encouraged visitors to stroll and linger. ______ he designed South Hills Village with long, pedestrian-friendly promenades and ample seating areas clustered around fountains and greenery. A. Regardless, B. In addition, C. Accordingly, D. By contrast,
Answer: C

78. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Long thought to be sessile (immobile), adult Chelonibia testudinaria, barnacles that adhere to sea turtle shells, have been observed to shift slightly in position over time--a phenomenon that has been attributed to the barnacles' passive displacement by water currents. ______ a research team found that adult C. testudinaria moved toward the heads of their sea turtle hosts and thus against the prevailing water flow, behavior consistent with self-initiated locomotion. A. Undermining this explanation, B. Contrary to this phenomenon, C. Drawing a similar conclusion, D. Confirming this hypothesis,
Answer: A

79. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In Annie Dillard's Pilgrim at Tinker Creek--where, early on, the author marvels at a single goldfish's delicate fins but later winces when imagining a horde of goldfish laying and eating their own eggs--Dillard struggles to reconcile the complicated juxtapositions of the natural world. ______ nature's mesmerizing intricacy and pitiless harshness prove inextricably linked for Dillard, like "two branches of the same creek." A. Moreover, B. To that end, C. Ultimately, D. Hence,
Answer: C

80. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize a difference between the two movies?
Silent films can be valuable historical documents of their time. Ninety percent of silent films made before 1930 are now lost. A film is considered lost when no remaining copies are known to exist. Director Howard Hawks's 1926 silent film The Road to Glory is lost. Director Oscar Micheaux's 1920 silent film Within Our Gates is archived at the UCLA Film & Television Archive in Los Angeles, California.
A. Howard Hawks's 1926 film The Road to Glory is among the many lost films of the era.
B. Howard Hawks's The Road to Glory (1926) and Oscar Micheaux's Within Our Gates (1920) are just two examples of silent films from the 1920s.
C. While Howard Hawks's The Road to Glory is considered lost to history, Oscar Micheaux's film Within Our Gates is archived at the UCLA Film & Television Archive in Los Angeles, California.
D. Oscar Micheaux's film Within Our Gates can be found at the UCLA Film & Television Archive in Los Angeles, California.
Answer: C

81. The student wants to contrast the type of neurotechnology Kernel develops with the type of neurotechnology Cortigent develops. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Founded in 2016, Kernel is a neurotechnology company that develops brain-computer interfaces (BCIs). BCIs interpret and execute brain signals to allow users to control external software or hardware with their thoughts. Founded in 2022, Cortigent is a neurotechnology company that develops neuroprostheses. Neuroprostheses act as replacement brain functions to restore the user's lost sensory, motor, or neural functions. Founded in 2012, MindMaze is a neurotechnology company that develops neuromodulation technologies. Neuromodulation technologies use neural interfaces to stimulate nervous system structures and influence neural activity.
A. Founded in 2016, Kernel develops technology for interpreting and executing brain signals, which, unlike Cortigent and MindMaze, is categorized as a neuroprosthestic.
B. Unlike Cortigent, which develops neurotechnology, Kernel develops BCIs.
C. BCIs allow users to control external software or hardware with their thoughts, but they don't restore sensory, motor, or neural functions as neuroprostheses do.
D. BCIs interpret and execute brain signals to allow users to control external software or hardware with their thoughts, whereas neuroprostheses influence neural activity.
Answer: C

202. As used in the text, what does the word "define" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from the 1895 poem "Shadow River" by Emily Pauline Johnson (Tekahionwake). The speaker is looking at the reflections of plants in a river.
The little fern-leaf, bending Upon the brink, its green reflection greets, And kisses soft the shadow that it meets With touch so fine, The border line The keenest vision can't define; So perfect is the blending. A. Perceive B. Abbreviate C. Restate D. Explain
Answer: A

203. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Text corpora such as the Bank of English are enormous collections of electronically stored texts that can be used for empirical testing of hypotheses regarding the frequency of typical word usage. For example, a linguist who assumes that the word "life" is ______ in written English could find evidence supporting that assumption in a corpus: "life" is the ninth most commonly used noun. A. ubiquitous B. authoritative C. diminishing D. misused
Answer: A

204. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? New and interesting research conducted by Suleiman A. Al-Sweedan and Moath Alhaj is inspired by their observation that though studies of the effect of high altitude on blood chemistry are ______, the effect on blood chemistry of living in locations below sea level, such as the California towns of Niland and Thermal, has received comparatively little notice. A. preliminary B. sporadic C. equivocal D. copious
Answer: D

205. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? One way to evaluate the importance of a scholar's research is to ______ other scholars' references to that research. For example, a count of other scholars' citations shows that Cornell University economist Francine Blau, who studies labor economics, is referenced frequently, indicating that her work has been significant in the field. A. abridge B. transpose C. enumerate D. circumvent
Answer: C

206. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
High-speed rail systems, in which trains can move at great speeds, are expanding in many countries because high-speed rail can reduce the number of automobiles on the road and ultimately conserve energy. In Denmark, for instance, 56 kilometers of high-speed rail lines are in operation as of 2023, and 717 kilometers are under construction.
A. The text rejects a long-held belief and then proposes a different interpretation.
B. The text questions a course of action and then suggests alternatives to that action.
C. The text summarizes an argument and then offers a challenge to that argument.

D. The text notes a general trend and then cites an example of that trend. Answer: D

207. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? In 1965, poet and scholar Dudley Randall founded Broadside Press in Detroit, Michigan. With the goal of making the work of Black poets widely available to the public, Randall published and distributed broadsides: individual poems printed on single sheets of paper. Since these broadsides became associated with the innovative aesthetics of the Black Arts Movement (1965-1975), Randall's publication format may likewise seem to have been pioneering, but, in fact, broadside poetry had also flourished in seventeenth-century London, where single-sheet popular ballads flooded the marketplace. A. It undermines the argument that Randall's method for publishing poetry was a largely novel one. B. It identifies a reason for a possible misconception regarding Randall's publication of broadsides. C. It explains why Randall's broadsides were important to the Black Arts Movement. D. It provides context for Randall's decision to publish work by Black poets as broadsides.
Answer: B

209. Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
In their meta-analysis of research on advergames (video games developed to promote products or services), Zeph M.C. van Berlo et al. confirm that such games, though they can elicit player interest, may not facilitate subsequent recall of product and brand information. This phenomenon can be explained by the finite nature of cognitive capacity as it is articulated in Annie Lang's limited capacity model of motivated mediated message processing. In this case, players' cognitive resources are directed foremost toward the advergame's mechanics, leaving little or no capacity for encoding and storing the information the advertiser intends to be salient.
A. The limited capacity model of motivated mediated message processing developed by Lang provides a means of explaining the finding by van Berlo et al. that players may not readily recollect the brand and product information embedded in advergames.
B. The meta-analysis by van Berlo et al. reveals that higher engagement in advergame mechanics is linked to lower effectiveness in persuading players to purchase particular brands and products.
C. Research by van Berlo et al. corroborates Lang's conclusion that because people predominantly focus on game mechanics when playing video games, it is difficult for advergames to communicate brand and product information in ways that are highly memorable.
D. Although the limited capacity model of motivated mediated message processing developed by Lang suggests otherwise, advergames can succeed as marketing tools, provided that they achieve a balance between game mechanics and the promotion of a brand or product.
Answer: A

211. Which choice best describes data from the table that weaken the students' claim?

Broken-Wing Display in Various Bird Species

Species name

Common name

Order Performs broken-wing display?

Gallinago paraguaiae South American snipe Charadriiformes No

Grus canadensis

sandhill crane

Gruiformes Yes

Zenaida meloda

West Peruvian dove Columbiformes No

Actitis hypoleucos common sandpiper Charadriiformes Yes

Coccyzus americanus yellow-billed cuckoo Cuculiformes Yes

While observing birds for a biology class, a group of students noticed a Western sandpiper (Calidris mauri), a bird of the order Charadriiformes (shorebirds), slowly move away, make loud noises, and feign an injured wing as the group approached the bird's ground nest. Researching this behavior, the students learned that this phenomenon is commonly referred to as "broken-wing display" and is meant to lure predators away from the nesting site and toward a seemingly vulnerable adult bird. Upon learning of other birds that also exhibit the behavior they had observed, the students hypothesized that the phenomenon is exclusive to shorebirds.

A. Unlike the common sandpiper, the South American snipe is not known to perform broken-wing display, even though both are in the order Charadriiformes.

B. Neither the West Peruvian dove nor the South American snipe is known to perform broken-wing display.

C. The common sandpiper, in the order Charadriiformes, is known to perform broken-wing display, and the West Peruvian dove, in the order Columbiformes, is not.

D. Both the yellow-billed cuckoo and the sandhill crane are known to perform broken-wing display.

Answer: D

212. Which choice uses data from the table to effectively complete the text?

Organic Compounds Detected in Sequential Extracts from A0106

Solvent (sequence #)

Alkanes Dimethyl sulfides Naphthalene

Hexane (1)

present absent

absent

Dichloromethane only (2)

present absent

present

Methanol only (3)

absent present

present

Dichloromethane and methanol (4) present absent

present

After sample A0106 was retrieved from the asteroid Ryugu, a portion of it was subjected to an extraction protocol in which small amounts of pulverized material were rinsed, sequentially, with hexane, dichloromethane, methanol, and finally a mixture of dichloromethane and methanol. Each rinse created a separate extract suitable for spectral analysis. Based on the table, both alkane and dimethyl sulfide compounds must have been present in the pulverized sample before the methanol-only extraction, because ______

A. the third extract in the sequence contains dimethyl sulfides and the fourth contains alkanes.

B. the second extract in the sequence contains alkanes but no dimethyl sulfides.

C. three of the four extracts contain alkanes but only one of the four contains dimethyl sulfides.

D. the fourth extract in the sequence contains alkanes but no dimethyl sulfides.

Answer: A

213. Which statement, if true, would most strongly support Wade's argument?
In medieval England, singers and minstrels made livings as traveling performers, but the pieces they performed have been a mystery, thought to be lost or never committed to paper at all. Recently, however, James Wade has argued that a manuscript collection compiled in the fifteenth century by Richard Heege contains three pieces likely copied from a repertoire book belonging to a minstrel working in the area around Heege's home. Wade cites features of the texts indicative of live performance, such as directly appealing to the audience, extensive use of repetition (allowing for easy memorization), and requests for tips (payment) from listeners.
A. Heege's collection contains the earliest examples of the three pieces in question, but each of those pieces occurs in other manuscript collections compiled after Heege's.
B. Traveling minstrels are thought to have performed mainly for elite audiences, and other parts of Heege's collection reflect his interest in works with popular appeal.
C. Features like repetition also occur in other texts from the period that were widely read but are not known to have been performed for live audiences.
D. The three pieces in question contain references that presume that the audience is familiar with Radford and other small villages near where Heege lived.
Answer: D

214. Based on the text, which finding, if true, would best account for the discrepancy Etta-Nkwelle observed?
Economists have demonstrated that herding--in which individuals converge on the same action by imitating the economic decisions of one or more peers--occurs among investors. Investigating whether herding also occurs among nations in matters of economic policy, Maru Etta-Nkwelle examined changes in the foreign currency reserves of emerging economies in various world regions in the years following the widespread financial crisis of 1997. Etta-Nkwelle posited that herding would manifest in regional peer countries converging on the same foreign currency accumulation rate regardless of each country's observable circumstances. She found that Asian countries showed evidence of herding but African countries did not.
A. The majority of the currency held in reserves by the African countries was foreign currency, whereas the majority of the currency held in reserves by the Asian countries was domestic currency.
B. The African countries tended to accumulate a variety of foreign currencies for their reserves, whereas the Asian countries tended to favor a single foreign currency for their reserves.
C. Most of the African countries belonged to international economic unions that set individual foreign-currency accumulation policies for each member, whereas the Asian countries were largely free to set their own policies.
D. The 1997 financial crisis resulted in immediate declines in many of the African countries' foreign currency reserves, whereas the crisis had few short-term effects on the foreign currency reserves of most of the Asian countries.
Answer: C

215. Which choice most logically completes the text? Introducing a new species into a delicate ecosystem can often be harmful. The hwamei and other fruit-eating birds have established themselves on the Hawaiian island of Oahu after being brought there in the last 150 years. Many plant species on the island rely on the activity of fruit-eating birds to maintain and increase their populations. In recent studies, hwameis have been found to spread seeds of native forest plants that are at risk of extinction, such as the kawau tree and the alahee tree, suggesting that ______ A. non-native birds have had both positive and negative effects on Oahu's native plants. B. although non-native birds initially damaged the plants in Oahu's ecosystem, they are now proving useful to them. C. rather than harming Oahu's ecosystem, some non-native birds provide an important benefit on Oahu. D. non-native birds, such as the hwamei, are unlikely to eat fruits from non-native forest plants on Oahu.
Answer: C

216. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Lichens lack root systems, so they must absorb water directly from the air, dew, and even tree bark and retain it in their bodies. A team of scientists recently used computer simulations to evaluate the importance of water stored in tree bark (bark water) for lichens in the Mediterranean region. In the control simulation, lichens had access to all water sources; in the experimental simulation, lichens had access to all sources except bark water. Compared to the control, the experimental simulation predicted a decrease in the lichens' overall biomass production of 21%. The experimental simulation (but not the control simulation) also predicted a decrease in the survival of certain species of lichen during the summer due to evaporative water loss, suggesting that ______
A. only some specialized lichen species are able to absorb bark water during long periods of high evaporation.
B. access to bark water may help offset the effects of seasonal water loss for some lichen species.
C. although lichens can absorb water from multiple sources, most of the water they absorb is bark water.
D. bark water absorption reduces biomass production in lichens but makes them more resistant to seasonal changes in conditions.
Answer: B

217. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Key-value pairs are an important aspect of JavaScript Object Notation (JSON), an electronic file format for storing and transmitting data. Keys function as labels, while values contain the actual information. In a JSON file storing data about fire belly ______ instance, you could encounter a key such as "species" with the associated value of "Cynops orientalis." A. newts: for B. newts. For C. newts; for D. newts, for
Answer: D

218. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Released in 1992, the Hewlett-Packard PA-7100 microchip contained a single CPU, or core, to execute commands. As processing speeds of single-core chips increased over time, so too did the heat the chips generated. ______ a "power wall" in which more heat was produced than could be efficiently dissipated led developers to invent the dual-core chip in the early 2000s. A. They hit B. Hitting C. When they hit D. Upon hitting
Answer: B

219. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Should the United Kingdom cut taxes? As of 2017, the United Kingdom's top tax rate (59%) was lower than the highest point on the country's Laffer curve. A theoretical relationship between tax rates and revenues, the curve can be used to determine whether tax cuts will ultimately increase a country's tax revenue, according to some ______ 2017 data suggested that the United Kingdom was below the threshold for a tax cut. A. economists the B. economists, the C. economists; as the D. economists. The
Answer: D

220. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? A 2024 study by archaeologist Guadalupe Romero Villanueva and colleagues ______ that comb-shaped motifs painted on the walls of Argentina's Cueva Huenul (a cave in northern Patagonia) are approximately 8,200 years old offers compelling geochronological evidence that humans had been visiting the cave for more than 3,000 years before abandoning it around 5,100 years ago. A. reported B. has reported C. reports D. reporting
Answer: D

221. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Obsidian hydration dating (OHD), an artifact-dating technique that measures the thickness of the rind that forms on the surface of obsidian (a volcanic glass), can be used to estimate when prehistoric humans used the sharp glass to shape stone tools. The use of OHD requires careful calibration based on a sample's climatic context and ______ temperature fluctuations, variations in water vapor pressure, and differences in glass chemistry are known to affect the rate of rind growth. A. composition, though, B. composition, though: C. composition; though D. composition though
Answer: D

222. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Stephanie Shonekan of the University of Missouri, along with researchers George Starks of Drexel University and Tyron Cooper of Indiana University, ______ on the advisory team for the Timeline of African American Music, an interactive digital resource that explores African American musical history from the 1600s to the present day. A. are serving B. have served C. serves D. serve
Answer: C

223. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Since 1941, the South Side Community Art Center in Chicago, Illinois, has cultivated a multigenerational community of Black creatives--from writer Gwendolyn Brooks, to musician Nat King Cole, to visual artists like Espi Eph and Barbara Jones-Hogu. ______ it has garnered a reputation as a hub of Black art and culture in Chicago. A. On the other hand, B. Nevertheless, C. Periodically, D. Accordingly,
Answer: D

224. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Despite her considerable body of work, the writer Ann Batten Cristall (1769-1848) was largely overlooked by twentieth-century scholars of British Romantic poetry, whose research tended to focus on the Romantic era's most prominent figures (such as William Wordsworth, the author of "Composed upon Westminster Bridge" and other well-known poems). ______ a 2020 analysis of Cristall's poems by scholar Stefanie John helps illuminate Cristall's significant contributions to Romanticism. A. Illustrating this trend, B. In accordance with these scholars, C. In addition to this research, D. Addressing this oversight,
Answer: D

225. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The names of geological eras uniformly describe phases in Earth's evolutionary history (e.g., Phanerozoic means "abundant life"). Names given to geological periods, ______ are of diverse origins. The Permian period is named after the historical region of Perm in Russia, for example, while the Silurian period takes its name from the Celtic tribe the Silures. A. therefore, B. in turn, C. on the other hand, D. furthermore,
Answer: C

226. The student wants to contrast the two sculptures. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Artistic works made readily accessible to the general public are categorized as public art. Artist Marco Cianfanelli's metal sculpture Release is on display at a public memorial in Howick, South Africa. This work of public art depicts the first democratically elected president of South Africa, Nelson Mandela. Artist Douglas Coupland's metal sculpture Digital Orca is on display at a public convention center in Vancouver, Canada. This work of public art depicts a whale formed from black and white cubes.
A. In contrast to Cianfanelli's Release, Coupland's Digital Orca is displayed in a public place. B. Release by Cianfanelli and Digital Orca by Coupland are two examples of public art. C. Cianfanelli's Release, unlike Coupland's Digital Orca, depicts a human subject. D. Coupland's sculpture Digital Orca, which depicts a whale formed from black and white cubes, is on display in Vancouver, Canada.
Answer: C

227. The student wants to make a generalization about free-elections clauses in state constitutions. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
US states are the primary regulators of federal and state elections and bear much of the responsibility to establish voting rights. All fifty state constitutions contain clauses that confer the right to vote on eligible citizens. Thirty state constitutions also include some form of a free-elections clause. These clauses more broadly mandate that elections be conducted in a fair manner. Further guidance with regard to voting rights and conducting elections is legislated by state lawmakers.
A. Although all states' constitutions have clauses conferring the right to vote, free and fair elections aren't mandated with the same consistency.
B. Every state constitution has some form of a free-elections clause, by which a state confers voting rights on eligible citizens.
C. States bear most of the responsibility for establishing voting rights and conducting fair elections.
D. In addition to constitutional provisions such as free-elections clauses, state lawmakers provide election guidance by means of legislation.
Answer: A

228. The student wants to emphasize a historical similarity between Hadid's and Gehry's respective projects. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The 1988 exhibition Deconstructivist Architecture at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York City featured projects by seven architects. The exhibition was influential in popularizing deconstructivist design principles in the late twentieth century. It included architectural plans for The Peak, a 1983 project by Iraqi British architect Zaha Hadid featuring jagged geometric forms jutting out from an artificial cliff. It included a model of Gehry House, a 1978-88 project by US architect Frank Gehry featuring jagged geometric forms extending from a Dutch colonial exterior. Curators Philip Johnson and Mark Wigley describe the exhibition's projects as subverting conventional assumptions "about order, harmony, stability, and unity."
A. The popularization of deconstructivist design in the late twentieth century owes much to the architects featured in MoMA's 1988 exhibition, Hadid and Gehry among them.
B. Hadid's and Gehry's respective projects date to 1978, a decade before MoMA's influential 1988 exhibition Deconstructivist Architecture.
C. With their jagged geometric forms, The Peak and Gehry House both subvert conventional assumptions "about order, harmony, stability, and unity" (Johnson and Wigley).
D. The Peak and Gehry House were featured in an influential 1988 MoMA exhibition that popularized deconstructivist design principles in the late twentieth century.
Answer: D

Section: Section 2, Module 1: Math, Difficulty: unknown (70 questions)

82. y = 8x - 3
What is the solution (x, y) to the given system of equations? A. (2, 13) B. (8, 13) C. (13, 2) D. (13, 8)

y = 13

Answer: A

83. Triangle P QR is similar to triangle XY Z such that P , Q, and R correspond to X, Y , and Z, respectively. The length of side P Q is 20, and the length of side QR is 18. The length of each side of triangle XY Z is 2 times the length of its corresponding side in triangle P QR. What is the length of side Y Z? A. 9 B. 10 C. 36 D. 40
Answer: C

84. A number x is at least twice the value of a number y. If the value of y is 65, which inequality represents the possible values of x? A. x  63 B. x  67 C. x  130 D. x  132
Answer: C

85. The function h is defined by h(x) = 4(6x - 10). What is the value of h(10)? A. 10 B. 40 C. 60 D. 200
Answer: D
86. g(t) = -16t2 + 176t The function g gives the height of a model rocket, in feet, t seconds after it was launched into the air. Which statement is the best interpretation of g(3) = 384? A. The height of the model rocket was 384 feet when it was launched into the air. B. The height of the model rocket was 3 feet when it was launched into the air. C. The height of the model rocket was 3 feet 384 seconds after it was launched into the air. D. The height of the model rocket was 384 feet 3 seconds after it was launched into the air.
Answer: D

87. Sophia bought confetti and balloons for $69. Each package of confetti cost $2, and each balloon cost $1. If Sophia bought 10 packages of confetti, how many
balloons did she buy?
Answer: 49
88. If 2x+2x = 88, what is the value of 4x?
5
A. 88 B. 220 C. 440 D. 880
Answer: C

89. A marine biologist uses a linear model to estimate the weight of a blue whale after it is born. The model estimates that a certain blue whale weighs 5,310 pounds at birth and gains 10.0 pounds per hour, for 120 hours, after it is born. Based on this model, what is the estimated weight, in pounds, of this blue whale 3 hours after it
is born?
Answer: 5340

90. If x = 56 and cx = 56, what is the value of c?

y

8y

Answer: 8

91. Which expression is a factor of 81p21 - 121p19? A. 9p + 11 B. 81p2 + 121 C. 11p - 9 D. -40p44
Answer: A

92.
x h(x) 0 28 1 29 2 31
For the function h, the table gives three values of x and their corresponding values of h(x). Which equation could define h? A. h(x) = 2x B. h(x) = 2x + 2 C. h(x) = 2x + 26 D. h(x) = 2x + 27
Answer: D

93. For the linear function g, the graph of y = g(x) in the xy-plane has a slope of 5 and passes through the point (1, 19). Which equation defines g? A. g(x) = 5x B. g(x) = 5x + 5 C. g(x) = 5x + 14 D. g(x) = 19x
Answer: C

94. f(x) = 2(x - 1)(x - 6)(x - 9) If the given function f is graphed in the xy-plane, where y = f(x), what is the x-coordinate of an x-intercept of the graph?
Answer: 1
95. y = 10z x+4 The given equation relates the positive numbers x, y, and z. Which equation correctly expresses z in terms of x and y? A. z = xy
10
B. z = x+4
10y
C. z = 10y
x+4
D. z = (x+4)y
10
Answer: D

96. Which equation has no solution?
A. 6x + 2 = 2(3x + 1) B. 6x + 20 = 2(3x + 4) C. 6x + 1 = 3x + 1 D. 6x + 3 = -6x - 3
Answer: B

97.

Number of cars
4 6 8

Maximum number of passengers and crew
145 213 281

The table shows the linear relationship between the number of cars, c, on a commuter train and the maximum number of passengers and crew, p, that the train can carry. Which equation represents the linear relationship between c and p? A. 34c - p = -9 B. 34c - p = 9 C. 34p - c = -9 D. 34p - c = 9

Answer: A

98.

In the triangle shown, what is the value of sin x°?
Answer: .4827
99. While the mass of an object is the same everywhere, the weight of an object is not the same on different planets. An object has a weight of 70.00 pounds on Earth and a weight of 74.62 pounds on Saturn. The object's weight on Jupiter is 252.8% of its weight on Earth. If the object's weight on Saturn is x% of its weight on Jupiter, which of the following is closest to the value of x? A. 42.17 B. 69.76 C. 176.96 D. 269.48
Answer: A
100. y = 8(x - 2)2 + 3 y = 8x + 3
A solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is one possible value of xy?

Answer: 11

101. The measure of angle S is 9 radians. The measure of angle T is 3 times the measure of angle S. Which expression represents the measure, in degrees, of
13
angle T ?

A. 9 (90)(3)
13

B.

9 13

(180)(3)

C.

9 13

(90)(3)

D. 9 (180)(3)
13

Answer: B

102. 8|7 - x| + 2 = 82
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 14 B. 10 C. -3 D. -14
Answer: A

103. The scatterplot shows the relationship between x and y for the 10 data points in data set A.
y
160

120

80

40

4 3 2 1 O

x 1234

Data set B is created by multiplying the y-value of each data point from data set A by 40. Which of the following equations is the most appropriate model for data set
B?
A. y = 7(2.11)x B. y = 276(2.11)x C. y = 7(2.11)x + 40 D. y = 40(2.11)x + 40

Answer: B

229. The number of muskrat in a 133-acre area is estimated to be 2,128. What is the estimated population density, in muskrat per acre, of this area? A. 16 B. 133 C. 149 D. 2,144
Answer: A

230.

The triangle shown has one side with a length of x inches and two sides each with a length of y inches. The perimeter of the triangle is 63 inches. Which equation
represents this situation?
A. x + y = 63 B. x + 2y = 63 C. 2x + y = 63 D. 2x + 2y = 63
Answer: B

231. A jar has 530 buttons, and 20% of these buttons are red. How many buttons in the jar are red?
Answer: 106

232. There are a total of 5,600 milligrams of phosphorus in a sample of soil. Each kilogram of this sample contains 800 milligrams of phosphorus. Which equation represents this situation, where x is the mass, in kilograms, of the sample of soil? A. x + 800 = 5,600 B. 5,600x = 800 C. x + 5,600 = 800 D. 800x = 5,600
Answer: D

233. The function f is defined by f(x) =

1 2

(x

+

6).

What

is

the

value

of

f

(8)?

A. 28

B. 14

C. 12

D. 7

Answer: D

234. If 8x + 7 = 32, what is the value of 3(8x + 7)? A. 75 B. 96 C. 117 D. 128
Answer: B

235. Triangles ABC and DEF are congruent, where A corresponds to D, and B and E are right angles. The measure of angle A is 68°. What is the measure, in degrees, of angle F ?
Answer: 22

236. A savings account is opened with an initial deposit of $3,000. The amount of money in the account t years after the initial deposit is given by the function f(t) = 3,000(1.02)2t. Which of the following is the best interpretation of the statement "f(8) is approximately equal to 4,118.36" in this context? A. 8 years after the initial deposit, the amount of money, in dollars, in the account is 4,118.36. B. Every 8 years, the amount of money, in dollars, in the account increases by 4,118.36. C. Every 8 years, the amount of money, in dollars, in the account decreases by 4,118.36. D. 8 years after the initial deposit, the amount of money, in dollars, in the account has increased by 4,118.36.
Answer: A

237. y = (x - 7)(x + 10) Which table gives four values of x and the corresponding values of y for the given quadratic equation?
A.

x -1 0 y 10 17

1

2

24 31

B.

x -1 0

1

2

y -72 -70 -66 -60

C.

x -1 0

1

2

y -77 -70 -63 -56

D.

x -1 0

1

2

y 18 10 4

0

Answer: B

238. 4x + 3 = rx + 6 In the given equation, r is a constant. The equation has no solution. What is the value of r? A. 4 B. 6 C. 7 D. 18
Answer: A

239. In the linear function f, f(0) = 9 and f(2) = 9. Which equation defines f? A. f(x) = 0 B. f(x) = 2 C. f(x) = 9 D. f(x) = x + 9
Answer: C

240. An arborist studying forestland in Illinois estimates that there are at least 40 and no more than 50 hickory trees per acre in a certain forest. Which of the following best represents the arborist's estimate of the number of hickory trees, x, that are in a 3-acre section of this forest? A. 150  x  300 B. 120  x  150 C. 43  x  53 D. 40  x  50
Answer: B

241. x2 + (k - 2)x + 37 = 0 In the given equation, k is a constant. The equation has exactly one real solution. What is the value of k? A. 150 B. 148 C. 146 D. 39
Answer: A

242. For the polynomial function p, the graph of y = p(x) in the xy-plane crosses through the points (-10, 0), (0, 12), (7, 0), and (14, 0). What is the value of p(0)
?
Answer: 12

243. The graph of -15x + 1.2y = -270 in the xy-plane has intercepts at (a, 0) and (0, b). What is the value of ab?
Answer: -4050

244. x + 15y = 40 4x + 3y = 27
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of y?
Answer: 2.333

245. As part of a study on sedimentary habitats, the water temperature was recorded at different depths below the surface of the water in the northern Alboran Sea.
The data shown in the scatterplot give the recorded temperature, in degrees Celsius, for 7 depths, in meters, below the surface of the water.

Which of the following is closest to the slope of a line of best fit for the data shown?
A. -8.02 B. -6.02 C. -2.17 D. -0.17
Answer: D

246. a = 3 b + 6
5

The given equation relates the positive numbers a and b. Which equation correctly expresses b in terms of a?

A. b = 3 a + 6
5

B. b =

3 a - 10
5

C. b = 5 a - 6
3

D. b =

5 a - 10
3

Answer: D

247. The measure of an angle, in radians, is (99)(2). What is the measure of the angle, in degrees? A. (180)(99)(360) B. (99)(2)(360) C. (99)(360) D. ( 99 )(360)
2
Answer: C

248.

In triangles RST and XY Z shown, XY is parallel to T S and tan R = 141701 . What is the value of sin X in triangle XY Z?
A. 140
311
B. 140
221
C. 171
221
D. 171 140
Answer: C

249. |x + 2| + 2 = |5x - 19| + 2
What is the smallest solution to the given equation? Answer: 2.833

250. y = 6x2 - 48x + 98 y+4=0
How many solutions are there to the given system of equations?
A. There is exactly 1 solution. B. There are exactly 2 solutions. C. There are exactly 3 solutions.
D. There are no solutions.
Answer: D

376. The number of deer in a 134-square mile area is estimated to be 2,278. What is the estimated population density, in deer per square mile, of this area? A. 17 B. 134 C. 151 D. 2,295
Answer: A

381. If 9x + 4 = 44, what is the value of 2(9x + 4)? A. 80 B. 88 C. 96 D. 132
Answer: B

383. For the function f, the table shows four values of x and their corresponding values of f(x). x f(x) 1 8,000 2 1,600 3 320 4 64
Which of the following could describe this function? A. Increasing linear B. Decreasing linear C. Increasing exponential D. Decreasing exponential
Answer: D

392. For two acute angles X and Y , the measure of angle Y

is 47° and

sin X cos Y

= 1. What is the measure, in degrees, of angle X?

A. 92

B. 47

C. 45

D. 43

Answer: D

396. |x + 3| + 3 = |5x - 16| + 3
What is the smallest solution to the given equation? Answer: 2.166

523. y = 5x - 6
What is the solution (x, y) to the given system of equations? A. (4, 14) B. (5, 14) C. (14, 4) D. (14, 5)
Answer: A

y = 14

530.

Triangles ABC and ABC  are shown. Triangle ABC is dilated by a scale factor of 3 to form triangle ABC . If the length of AB is 21, what is the length of AB ? A. 3 B. 7 C. 24 D. 63
Answer: D
729. If 8x + 5 = 44, what is the value of 2(8x + 5)? A. 78 B. 88 C. 98 D. 132
Answer: B
733. One of the factors of 6x4 + 29x2 + 28 is ax2 + b, where a and b are positive constants. Which of the following is a possible value of ab? A. 4 B. 8 C. 14 D. 21
Answer: C
753. A line in the xy-plane passes through the points (9, 1), (0, 8), and (c, 0). What is the value of c?
Answer: 10.28
784. f(x) = 11x10 + 2x8 g(x) = -13x7 + 7x5
The polynomial p(x) is defined as the product of the given polynomials, f(x) and g(x). What is the coefficient of x15 in p(x)? A. 15 B. 51 C. 77 D. 103
Answer: B
788. If 7x + 2 = 32, what is the value of 3(7x + 2)? A. 90 B. 96 C. 102 D. 128
Answer: B
801.

The shaded region shown represents the solutions to which inequality?
A. y > -5x + 9 B. y > 9x - 5 C. y < -5x + 9 D. y < 9x - 5
Answer: A
818. |x + 5| + 5 = |2x - 15| + 5
What is the smallest solution to the given equation? Answer: 3.333
972. y = 4x2 - 40x + 36
The given equation represents a parabola in the xy-plane. Which of the following equations that represent the same parabola displays the x-intercepts as constants or coefficients?
A. y = 4(x - 9)(x - 1) B. y = 4(x - 5)2 - 64 C. y = 4x(x - 10) + 36 D. y = 4(x2 - 10x) + 36
Answer: A 979.
In the figure shown, line r is parallel to line s. What is the value of x?
Answer: 35
984. 9|6 - x| + 3 = 93
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. -12 B. -4 C. 10 D. 12
Answer: D

1111. The number of deer in a 131-square mile area is estimated to be 2,358. What is the estimated population density, in deer per square mile, of this area? A. 18 B. 131 C. 149 D. 2,376
Answer: A

1114. What is the x-intercept of the graph of y = 33-x in the xy-plane, where a and b are positive constants?
ax+b

A.

(-

b a

,

0)

B. (0, 33 )
b

C. (0, -33)

D. (33, 0)

Answer: D

1117. If 7x + 4 = 24, what is the value of 2(7x + 4)? A. 40 B. 48 C. 56 D. 72
Answer: B

1272.

Number of cars
4 7 9

Maximum number of passengers and crew
199 343 439

The table shows the linear relationship between the number of cars, c, on a commuter train and the maximum number of passengers and crew, p, that the train can carry. Which equation represents the linear relationship between c and p? A. 48c - p = -7 B. 48c - p = 7 C. 48p - c = -7 D. 48p - c = 7

Answer: A

1278. 6|7 - x| + 4 = 64
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 14 B. 10 C. -3 D. -14
Answer: A

1410. A length of 310 meters is equal to how many decimeters? (1 meter = 10 decimeters)
Answer: 3100

1411. If 9x + 2 = 34, what is the value of 2(9x + 2)? A. 64 B. 68 C. 72 D. 102
Answer: B

1560. y  x + 15 y  -5x - 15
Which point (x, y) is a solution to the given system of inequalities in the xy-plane? A. (-6, 13) B. (-6, 8) C. (-4, 13) D. (-4, 8)
Answer: A

1563.

The figure shown is a right rectangular pyramid, where  = 10 units, w = 5 units, and h = 11 units. What is the surface area, in square units, of the pyramid?
Answer: 223.2
Section: Section 2, Module 2: Math, Difficulty: easy (72 questions)
104. What value of p satisfies the equation 6p + 30 = 150? A. 20 B. 30 C. 114 D. 150
Answer: A
105. A customer spent $12 to purchase oranges at $3 per pound. How many pounds of oranges did the customer purchase?
Answer: 4
106.

The y-intercept of the graph shown is (x, y). What is the value of y?
Answer: 10
107. A biodegradable object with a mass of 36 grams started to decompose after being discarded. Each month after the object started to decompose, the remaining mass of the object was approximately 70% of the mass of the preceding month. Which function f gives the approximate remaining mass, in grams, of the object x
months after the object started to decompose?
A. f(x) = 36(0.3)x B. f(x) = 36(0.7)x C. f(x) = 36(1.3)x D. f(x) = 36(1.7)x
Answer: B
108. Which expression is equivalent to (8yz)(y)(3z)? A. 24y2z2 B. 24y2z C. 24yz D. 16yz
Answer: A
109. The price of an item increased by p% from $78 to $81. What is the value of p?
Answer: 50/13
110.

Frequency

The graph of a system of a linear equation and a nonlinear equation is shown. What is the solution (x, y) to this system? A. (5, 4) B. (3, 0) C. (0, 5) D. (0, 0)
Answer: A
111. The function f is defined by f(x) = x2 + 86. What is the value of f(x) when x = 10? A. -186 B. -14 C. 14 D. 186
Answer: D
112.
175 150 125 100
75 50 25 0
ABCDE Category
In the bar graph, which category has a frequency that is 1 the frequency of category E?
3
A. Category A B. Category B C. Category C D. Category D Answer: D
113. Each side of a triangle has a length of 27. What is the perimeter of this triangle?
Answer: 81
114.
In triangle XY Z shown, segments XY and Y Z each have length 128 millimeters. Which statement is sufficient to prove that all three angles in the triangle have
equal measure?
A. Segment XZ has length 64 millimeters. B. Segment XZ has length 128 millimeters. C. Segment XZ has length 256 millimeters. D. Segment XZ has length 384 millimeters.
Answer: B
115. f(r) = 15 + 3r The function f represents the total cost, in dollars, of attending a carnival when r rides are ridden. How many rides can be ridden for a total cost of $51?
Answer: 12
116.

The graph of the linear function f is shown, where y = f(x). What is the slope of the graph of f? A. -5 B. - 14
C. 14
D. 5
Answer: C
117. Which measure, in radians, is equivalent to (36  180)°? A. 36 B.  + 36 C. - 
36
D.  - 36
Answer: A
118. In an experiment, two solutions are combined such that the volume of the mixture increases at a constant rate of 2.6 milliliters per minute. Which of the following
describes the total volume of the mixture as a function of time? A. Increasing linear B. Decreasing linear C. Increasing exponential D. Decreasing exponential Answer: A
119.
In the triangle shown, what is the value of x? A. 21 B. 42 C. 45 D. 69
Answer: C
121. A snack company advertises that bags of pretzels produced by the company weigh, on average, 1 pound each. To test this, Sam selected at random 25 bags of
pretzels produced by the company and weighed each bag. Based on his measurements, Sam estimated that for all bags of pretzels produced by the company, the
average weight per bag is 1.02 pounds, with a margin of error of 0.03 pounds. For all bags of pretzels produced by the company, which of the following is the most appropriate conclusion about the average weight w, in pounds, per bag? A. w = 1.02 B. 0.99  w  1.02 C. 0.99  w  1.05 D. 1.02  w  1.05
Answer: C
122. A rectangle has width w and length . If the perimeter of the rectangle is greater than 45, which of the following inequalities must be true? A. w +  < 45 B. 2w + 2 < 45 C. w +  > 45 D. 2w + 2 > 45
Answer: D
123. A rectangle has a length of x units and a width of (x - 12) units. If the rectangle has an area of 133 square units, what is the value of x? A. 7 B. 19 C. 26 D. 133
Answer: B
1
124. Which expression is equivalent to (66y) 2 , where y > 1? A. 66  y B. 66  y C. 66y D. (66y)2
Answer: C
125. A piece of string with a length of 76 inches is cut into two parts. One part has a length of x inches, and the other part has a length of y inches. The value of x is 6 more than 4 times the value of y. What is the value of x?
Answer: 62
251. What value of p satisfies the equation 10p + 180 = 280? A. 10 B. 46 C. 90 D. 280
Answer: A
257. The function f is defined by f(x) = x2 + 51. What is the value of f(x) when x = 10? A. -151 B. -49 C. 49 D. 151
Answer: D
259. The length of a rectangle's diagonal is 145, and the length of one of the rectangle's sides is 8. What is the perimeter of the rectangle? A. 145 B. 72 C. 34 D. 17
Answer: C
267. In the ancient Roman measurement system, a leuga was a unit of length that was equal to 7,500 pedes. In this measurement system, how many pedes were equivalent to 1.5 leugas?
Answer: 11250
398. The graph shows the predicted value y, in dollars, of a certain car x years after it is first purchased.

Which of the following is closest to the predicted value of the car 3 years after it is first purchased? A. $8,898 B. $13,233 C. $19,680 D. $24,000
Answer: B
399. How many meters are equivalent to 2,900 centimeters? (100 centimeters = 1 meter) A. 0.034 B. 29 C. 3,000 D. 290,000
Answer: B
400. x + 5 = 95 What value of x is the solution to the given equation?
Answer: 90
401. Tatiana recorded the number of minutes of screen time on her devices for a one-week period. On Monday, she recorded 70 minutes of screen time. On Tuesday
through Thursday, the number of minutes she recorded each day was more than the day before. On Friday and Saturday, the number of minutes she recorded each day was fewer than the day before. On Sunday, the number of minutes she recorded was the highest of any day of the week. Which of the following line graphs could represent Tatiana's recorded screen time for this week? A.

Screen time (minutes)

130 120 110 100
90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
Mond Tu a e y sd edn a e y sd Thu a r y sday W

Fridayaturday day Sun S

Day

B.

Screen time (minutes)

130 120 110 100
90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
Mond Tu a e y sd edn a e y sd Thu a r y sday W

Fridayaturday day Sun S

Day

C.

Screen time (minutes)

110 100
90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
Mond Tu a e y sd edn a e y sd Thu a r y sday W

Fridayaturday day Sun S

Day

D.

Screen time (minutes)

100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
Mond Tu a e y sd edn a e y sd Thu a r y sday W

Fridayaturday day Sun S

Day

Answer: B
402. Which expression is equivalent to 10x + 4x + 10y + 7y + 3? A. 34xy B. 31xy + 3 C. 20x + 11y + 3 D. 14x + 17y + 3
Answer: D
403. The bar graph shows the distribution of the number of students in each of four sports programs at a high school.

Number of students

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

lleyb h a o l c sket so l key ball ccer

vo

ba

Program

How many more students are in the hockey program than the volleyball program?
A. 10 B. 40 C. 50 D. 90
Answer: A
404. If x - 6 = 7, what is the value of (x - 6)? A. 7 B. 43 C. 49 D. 98
Answer: C
405. To buy tickets for a concert, a purchaser pays a onetime $4.50 fee for the transaction and $24 per ticket. Which function g represents the total amount, in dollars, a purchaser pays for a transaction with c concert tickets? A. g(c) = c + 24 B. g(c) = c - 4.50 C. g(c) = 4.50c D. g(c) = 24c + 4.50
Answer: D

406.

In the figure, two lines intersect at a point. Angle 1 and angle 2 are vertical angles. The measure of angle 1 is 108°. What is the measure of angle 2? A. 54° B. 72° C. 108° D. 468°
Answer: C
407. A biologist recorded the pinching force of wild coconut crabs. The lowest pinching force recorded was 87.1 newtons and the highest pinching force recorded was 121.3 newtons. Which inequality is true for all values of c, where c represents any pinching force, in newtons, recorded for these wild coconut crabs? A. c  87.1 B. c  121.3 C. 43.5  c  60.6 D. 87.1  c  121.3
Answer: D
408. Which expression is equivalent to 2x5 + 14w? A. 2(x5 + 7w) B. 2(x5 + 14w) C. 7(x5 + 2w) D. 14(x5 + w)
Answer: A
409.

Which equation shows the relationship between the side lengths of the given triangle?
A. 11b = 18 B. 11 + b = 18 C. 112 + b2 = 182 D. 112 - b2 = 182
Answer: C
410. The function f is defined by f(x) = 5 + x. What is the value of f(100)?
Answer: 15

412. A square tile has a side length of 54x centimeters (cm). Which equation gives the area A, in cm2, for 6 of these square tiles?

A.

A

=

(6)(

x 54

)(

x 54

)

B. A = (6)(54x)(54x)

C. A = (6)(x - 54)(x - 54)

D. A = (6)(x + 54)(x + 54)

Answer: B

413. Circle T has a radius of 18 millimeters (mm). What is the area of circle T , in mm2? A. 18 B. 36 C. 72 D. 324
Answer: D

414. At how many points do the graphs of the equations y = x - 24 and y = -9x intersect in the xy-plane?
Answer: 1

415. A certain book has 200 pages, and 31 of these pages have an illustration. If one of the book's pages is selected at random, what is the probability of selecting a
page with an illustration? (Express your answer as a decimal or fraction, not as a percent.)
Answer: 31/200

416. 8x - 7y = 9 4x + y = 6
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x + y?
Answer: 7/4

417.
x g(x) 1 24 2 17 3 10 43
For the linear function g, the table shows four values of x and their corresponding values of g(x). The function can be written as g(x) = mx + b, where m and b are constants. What is the value of b? A. 7 B. 12 C. 24 D. 31
Answer: D

418. The function f is defined by f(x) = (x - 2)(x - 7)(x + 4). In the xy-plane, the graph of y = h(x) is the result of translating the graph of y = f(x) up 5 units. What is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the graph of y = h(x)? A. 0 B. 5 C. 56 D. 61
Answer: D

419. If k2 + 5k - 19

=

0, which of the following is a possible value of k +

5?
2

A. 2

B. 19

C. 101
2

D. 19

Answer: C

552. If 4 - 3x

=

48, what is the value of

1 6

(4

-

3x)?

A. 288

B. 48

C. 8

D. 6

Answer: C

556. If x = 2n 7xn + 30, where n is a positive integer constant, what is the value of xn?
Answer: None, insufficient information to uniquely determine x^n without knowing n or additional constraints

565. The function f is defined by f(x) = (x - 2)(x - 9)(x + 4). In the xy-plane, the graph of y = h(x) is the result of translating the graph of y = f(x) up 7 units. What is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the graph of y = h(x)? A. 0 B. 7 C. 72 D. 79
Answer: D

766. What value of p satisfies the equation 10p + 40 = 480? A. 44 B. 52 C. 430 D. 480
Answer: A

791. A number f is 120% greater than a positive number g. A number h is 10% less than the number f. The number h is how many times the number g? A. 0.12 B. 0.22 C. 1.08 D. 1.98
Answer: D

800. In triangle RST , RS = ST

and the length of RT

is 48 units. If tan R =

7 24

,

what

is

the

area,

in

square

units,

of

triangle

RST

?

A. 84

B. 168

C. 288

D. 336

Answer: B

822. What value of p satisfies the equation 5p + 80 = 315? A. 47 B. 79 C. 230 D. 315
Answer: A

838. During a physics experiment, the speed of an object was determined to be 179.0 inches per second. What is this speed in feet per second? (12 inches = 1 foot)
Answer: 14.9167

840. The function f is defined by f(x) = x2 + 68. What is the value of f(x) when x = 10? A. -168 B. -32 C. 32 D. 168
Answer: D

849. The height of a right circular cylinder is 36 inches, and the circumference of its base is 360 inches. Which expression represents the total surface area, in square
inches, of the cylinder?
A. (36)(360) + 2( 180 )2

B. (36)(360) + ( 180 )2

C. ( 180 )2(36)

D. (36)(360)
Answer: A

986. What value of p satisfies the equation 2p + 270 = 330? A. 30 B. 58 C. 300 D. 330
Answer: A

992. For the linear function f, f(-2) = -8, and the slope of the graph of y = f(x) in the xy-plane is 6. Which equation defines f? A. f(x) = 6x - 10 B. f(x) = 6x - 8 C. f(x) = 6x - 2 D. f(x) = 6x + 4
Answer: D

993. The function f is defined by f(x) = x2 + 53. What is the value of f(x) when x = 10? A. -153 B. -47 C. 47 D. 153
Answer: D

999. 53 x - 14 y = 27

x + 3y = -9

The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x + y?

A. -9

B. -7

C. 7

D. 9

Answer: C

1133. What value of p satisfies the equation 2p + 145 = 295? A. 75 B. 148 C. 220 D. 295
Answer: A
1144. In triangle RST , RS = ST and the length of RT is 52 units. If tan T = 5 , what is the area, in square units, of triangle RST ?
26
A. 65 B. 130 C. 260 D. 338
Answer: B

1280. What value of p satisfies the equation 4p + 70 = 410? A. 85 B. 120 C. 336 D. 410
Answer: A

1286. The function f is defined by f(x) = x2 + 58. What is the value of f(x) when x = 10? A. -158 B. -42 C. 42 D. 158
Answer: D

1290. The function g is defined by g(x) = 15x + 37. For what value of x does g(x) = 40?
Answer: 1/5

1296. 5x + 8y = 30 rx + 24y = 90
In the given system of equations, r is a constant. The system has infinitely many solutions. What is the value of r? A. 3 B. 5 C. 8 D. 15
Answer: D

1427. What value of p satisfies the equation 9p + 225 = 360? A. 15 B. 65 C. 126 D. 360
Answer: A

1429.

In triangle ABC, DE is parallel to AC, BD = AD, BE = 5, and AC = 9. What is the length of BC? A. 45 B. 18 C. 14 D. 10
Answer: D
1441.

What is an equation of the graph shown?
A. y = 3x + 7 B. y = 3-x + 7 C. y = 3x + 8 D. y = 3-x + 8
Answer: A
1576. If |16 - 2x| = 58, which of the following is a value of 8 - x? A. 0 B. 8 C. 29 D. 42
Answer: C
1584. Which expression is equivalent to 5x3 + 30w? A. 5(x3 + 6w) B. 5(x3 + 30w) C. 6(x3 + 5w) D. 30(x3 + w)
Answer: A
1586. The function f is defined by f(x) = 4x - 6. If f(a) + 1 = 3a, what is the value of a? A. 7 B. 5 C. 1 D. -1
Answer: B
Section: Section 2, Module 2: Math, Difficulty: hard (53 questions)
126. Which expression is equivalent to (8x2 + 5x + 9) - (8x2 + 3)? A. 6 B. 12 C. 5x + 6 D. 5x + 12
Answer: C
128. W (x) = 4x + 60 The function W gives the total time, in minutes, it takes for a gardener to water x plants and mow the grass. According to the function, how long does it take the
gardener to mow the grass, in minutes?
A. 4 B. 15 C. 60

D. 240
Answer: C
129. The function f(x) = 55.20 - 0.16x gives the estimated surface water temperature f(x), in degrees Celsius, of Lake Superior on the xth day of the year, where 220  x  360. Based on the model, what is the estimated surface water temperature, in degrees Celsius, of Lake Superior on the 298th day of the year? A. 55.20 B. 7.52 C. -0.16 D. -47.68
Answer: B
130. A company has a customer loyalty program. In January 2018, there were 300 customers enrolled in the loyalty program. For the next 24 months after January 2018, the total number of customers enrolled in the loyalty program each month was 2% greater than the total number enrolled the previous month. Which equation gives the total number of customers, c, enrolled in the company's loyalty program m months after January 2018, where m  24? A. c = 300(0.02)m B. c = 300(1.02)m C. c = 300(1.2)m D. c = 300(2)m
Answer: B
131. 6x + 4 > y For which of the following tables are all the values of x and their corresponding values of y solutions to the given inequality?
A.
xy 05 1 11 2 17
B.
xy 04 1 12 2 18
C.
xy 04 18 2 14
D.
xy 03 19 2 15
Answer: D
132. A machine fills bags with approximately 15 ounces of sugar. To test the accuracy of the filling process, 343 bags of sugar were selected at random and weighed. Based on the sample, it is estimated that the average weight of all bags of sugar filled by the machine in an 8-hour period is 14.88 ounces, with an associated margin of error of 0.19 ounce. Which of the following is the best interpretation of this estimate? A. Plausible values for the average weight of all bags of sugar filled by the machine are between 14.69 ounces and 15.07 ounces. B. Plausible values for the average weight of all bags of sugar filled by the machine are less than 14.69 ounces or greater than 15.07 ounces. C. The average weight of all bags of sugar filled by the machine is greater than 14.99 ounces. D. The average weight of all bags of sugar filled by the machine is less than 14.99 ounces.
Answer: A
133. A container is in the shape of a right rectangular prism that is 2.0 centimeters (cm) wide, 19.0 cm long, and 25.0 cm tall. Which of the following is closest to the number of fluid ounces that are required to completely fill the container? (Use 1.0 cubic centimeter = 0.034 fluid ounces) A. 32 B. 900 C. 1,000 D. 28,000
Answer: A
134. In the xy-plane, line  passes through the point (0, 0) and is parallel to the line represented by the equation y = 6x + 3. If line  also passes through the point (8, d), what is the value of d?
Answer: 48
135. x(x + 6) - 112 = 3x(x - 8)
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 2 B. 8 C. 14 D. 15
Answer: D
137. Data set A consists of 10 positive integers less than 60. The list gives 9 of the integers from data set A. 42, 46, 44, 42, 38, 39, 40, 47, 40
The mean of these 9 integers is 42. If the mean of data set A is an integer that is greater than 42, what is the value of the largest integer from data set A? A. 43 B. 47 C. 52 D. 59
Answer: C
138. x2 - 40x + c = 0 In the given equation, c is a constant. The equation has no real solutions if c > n. What is the least possible value of n? A. -400 B. -40 C. 40 D. 400
Answer: D
139.
In the figure, line m is parallel to line n, and lines AE and CD intersect at point B. Which additional piece of information is sufficient to prove that triangle ABC is congruent to triangle EBD? A. AB = 16 and DB = 16. B. AB = 16 and EB = 16. C. Triangles ABC and EBD are isosceles.
D. No additional information is necessary to determine that the two triangles are congruent. Answer: B
x
140. f(x) = 25(1.20) 4 For the given function f, the value of f(x) increases by p% for every increase of x by 8. What is the value of p? A. 20 B. 31 C. 40 D. 44
Answer: D
141.

The graph of the linear function y = f(x) + 17 is shown. If c and d are positive constants, which equation could define f? A. f(x) = -d - cx B. f(x) = d + cx C. f(x) = d - cx D. f(x) = -d + cx
Answer: A

142. A right square pyramid has a surface area of 100 + 20146 square inches, which includes a base area of 100 square inches. What is the height, in inches, of
this pyramid?
Answer: 11

143. A circle in the xy-plane has its center at (-2, 2). Line t is tangent to this circle at the point (7, -5). Which of the following points also lies on line t?

A. (0,

9 7

)

B. (5, 11)

C. (14, 4)

D. (16, 2)

Answer: C

145. Which of the following expressions has a factor of x + 2b, where b is a positive integer constant? A. 2x2 + 9x + 18b B. 2x2 + 19x + 18b C. 2x2 + 20x + 18b D. 2x2 + 29x + 18b
Answer: D

146. A rectangular region of land is divided into 88 square lots of equal area A, in square units. The length of the region is 5.5 times the width of the region. If the length of the region is xA units, what is the value of x?
Answer: 22

147.
xy 25 -11 27 9 29 -11
The table shows three values of x and their corresponding values of y, where y = f(x) + 4 and f is a quadratic function. What is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the graph of y = f(x) in the xy-plane?
Answer: -3640

273. In triangle EF G, the sum of the measures of angles E and F is 36°. What is the measure of angle G? A. 36° B. 54° C. 108° D. 144°
Answer: D

274. Which of the following lists represents a data set with the smallest standard deviation?
A. 43, 44, 46, 48, 49 B. 44, 44, 46, 48, 48 C. 44, 45, 46, 47, 48 D. 45, 46, 46, 46, 47
Answer: D

275. y = (x - 30)(x - 60) y=0 The graphs of the equations in the given system of equations intersect at the point (x, y) in the xy-plane. What is a possible value of x? A. 0 B. 2 C. 60 D. 90
Answer: C

276. The cost to rent a kayak consists of a fixed fee for the first hour and an hourly fee for each additional hour. The table shows the rental cost for 2 hours and for 6
hours.

Rental hours
2 6

Rental cost (dollars)
65 185

Which function f gives the rental cost, in dollars, for x hours rental, where x  1? A. f(x) = 35x B. f(x) = 30x + 5 C. f(x) = 30x D. f(x) = 30x + 65

Answer: B

277. g(x) = (20 - 2x)(6 + 2x) The function g is defined by the given equation. For what value of x does g(x) reach its maximum? A. 3.5 B. 6.5 C. 7 D. 13
Answer: A

278. Rectangle X has a length of 24 millimeters (mm) and a width of 7.5 mm. Right triangle Y has a base of 60 mm. The area of rectangle X is 3 times the area of right triangle Y. What is the height, in mm, of right triangle Y? A. 1 B. 2 C. 3 D. 6
Answer: B

279.

x

y

0

n

4 n + 23

8 n + 46

There is a linear relationship between x and y. The table shows three values of x and their corresponding values of y in terms of a constant n. What is the slope of
the line in the xy-plane that represents this relationship? A. 1
2
B. 2
C. 234
D. 23

Answer: C

280. If a = 4k + 6r and b = 7k - 12r + 3, which expression is equivalent to a - b? A. -3k + 18r + 3 B. -3k + 18r - 3 C. -3k - 6r - 3 D. -3k - 6r + 3
Answer: B

281. An exponential function f is defined by f(x) = cx, where c is a constant greater than 1. If f(8) = 16  f(6), what is the value of c?
Answer: 4
283. The equation h = 9(v-273.15) + 32 gives the corresponding temperature h, in degrees Fahrenheit, of any substance that has a temperature of v kelvins, where
5
v > 0. If a substance has a temperature of 395.33 degrees Fahrenheit, what is the corresponding temperature, in kelvins, of this substance?
Answer: 475

284. 36x2 + 1241x + p = 0 In the given equation, p is a constant. The equation has exactly one real solution. What is the value of p? A. 41 B. 241
C. 41
2
D. 41
Answer: D
x
285. f(x) = 2,860(0.22) 12 The function f gives the value, in dollars, of a certain piece of equipment after x months of use. If the value of the equipment decreases each year by p% of its value the preceding year, what is the value of p? A. 2 B. 12 C. 22 D. 78
Answer: D

286. An equilateral triangle has a height of 223 units. What is the length, in units, of one side of this triangle? A. 443 B. 44 C. 223 D. 22
Answer: B
287. Which expression is NOT a factor of 6,480x4 - 1,280? A. 9x2 + 4 B. 3x2 - 2 C. 3x + 2 D. 80
Answer: B

288. 2,470x = 4,940x
How many solutions does the given equation have? A. Zero B. Exactly one C. Exactly two D. Infinitely many
Answer: B

290. In the xy-plane, line r passes through the points (3, 15) and (7, 16). Line s passes through the point (1, 2) and is perpendicular to line r. An equation of line s is ax + 7y = c, where a and c are constants. What is the value of c?
Answer: 42

291. For 100 neurons, the table summarizes the distribution of classification and cell body diameter.

Classification
Sensory neuron Motor neuron Interneuron

Cell body diameter (micrometers)

Less than 20

20 to 30 Greater than 30

13

7

2

0

17

18

10

33

0

One of these neurons will be selected at random. What is the probability of selecting a neuron with a cell body diameter that is less than or equal to 30 micrometers,
given that it is not classified as a motor neuron? (Express your answer as a decimal or fraction, not as a percent.)

Answer: 63/65

292. The value of an autographed baseball increased by 181% from the end of 2017 to the end of 2018 and then decreased by 14% from the end of 2018 to the end of 2019. What was the net percentage increase in the value of the autographed baseball from the end of 2017 to the end of 2019? A. 141.66% B. 155.66% C. 167.00% D. 220.34%
Answer: A

293. 5x + 3y = 6
The given equation is one equation in a system of two linear equations. If the system of equations has at least one solution, which of the following equations could be the other equation in the system?
I. 7.5x + 4.5y = 9 II. 7.5x - 4.5y = 9
A. I only B. II only C. I and II D. Neither I nor II
Answer: C

294.

In the figure shown, points A, B, C, and E lie on the circle, and AB < BC. Segment AC is perpendicular to segment BE at point D, and BD = 358. The

diameter of the circle is 181. If

CD AD

= r, what is the value of r?

Answer: 179/2

420. Which expression is equivalent to (3x2 + 8x + 7) - (3x2 + 3)? A. 4 B. 10 C. 8x + 4 D. 8x + 10
Answer: C

432. x2 - 28x + c = 0 In the given equation, c is a constant. The equation has no real solutions if c > n. What is the least possible value of n? A. -196 B. -28 C. 28 D. 196
Answer: D
567. Which expression is equivalent to (2x2 + 3x + 6) - (2x2 + 2)? A. 4 B. 8 C. 3x + 4 D. 3x + 8
Answer: C

580. x2 + 34x + c = 0 In the given equation, c is a constant. The equation has no real solutions if c > n. What is the least possible value of n? A. -289 B. -34 C. 34 D. 289
Answer: D

815. Which of the following lists represents a data set with the smallest standard deviation?
A. 31, 32, 34, 36, 37 B. 32, 32, 34, 36, 36 C. 32, 33, 34, 35, 36 D. 33, 34, 34, 34, 35
Answer: D
x
834. f(x) = 8,830(0.34) 12 The function f gives the value, in dollars, of a certain piece of equipment after x months of use. If the value of the equipment decreases each year by p% of its value the preceding year, what is the value of p? A. 3 B. 9 C. 34 D. 66
Answer: D

861. Which expression is equivalent to (7x2 + 6x + 9) - (7x2 + 4)? A. 5 B. 13 C. 6x + 5 D. 6x + 13
Answer: C
873. x2 + 6x + c = 0 In the given equation, c is a constant. The equation has no real solutions if c > n. What is the least possible value of n? A. -9 B. -6 C. 6 D. 9
Answer: D
1008. Which expression is equivalent to (6x2 + 2x + 4) - (6x2 + 3)? A. 1 B. 7 C. 2x + 1 D. 2x + 7
Answer: C
1020. x2 + 24x + c = 0 In the given equation, c is a constant. The equation has no real solutions if c > n. What is the least possible value of n? A. -144 B. -24 C. 24 D. 144
Answer: D
1155. Which expression is equivalent to (9x2 + 7x + 6) - (9x2 + 3)? A. 3 B. 9 C. 7x + 3 D. 7x + 9
Answer: C
1167. x2 + 2x + c = 0 In the given equation, c is a constant. The equation has no real solutions if c > n. What is the least possible value of n? A. -2 B. -1 C. 1 D. 2
Answer: C
1597. Which of the following lists represents a data set with the smallest standard deviation?
A. 74, 75, 77, 79, 80 B. 75, 75, 77, 79, 79 C. 75, 76, 77, 78, 79 D. 76, 77, 77, 77, 78
Answer: D
1611. Which expression is NOT a factor of 7,290x4 - 56,250? A. 9x2 + 25 B. 3x2 - 5 C. 3x + 5 D. 90
Answer: B

