
1. Section 1, Module 1: Reading and Writing / unknown (236) 2. Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing / easy (240) 3. Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing / hard (216) 4. Section 2, Module 1: Math / unknown (316) 5. Section 2, Module 2: Math / easy (277) 6. Section 2, Module 2: Math / hard (284)

Section: Section 1, Module 1: Reading and Writing, Difficulty: unknown (236 questions)
1. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Bing Xie and her team have discovered that plains zebras make at least four types of vocalizations: "snorts," "soft snorts," "squeals," and "quagga quagga" calls. The researchers used machine-learning algorithms to ______ recorded vocalizations according to type, finding that snorts vary across individual zebras, while squeals are more uniform across zebra populations. A. collapse B. categorize C. suppress D. extend
Answer: B
2. As used in the text, what does the word "considered" most nearly mean? The following text is from Chinua Achebe's 1964 novel Arrow of God. The novel is set in Nigeria in the 1920s. Ezeulu, who is the religious leader for several villages, announces when the annual yam harvest can begin.
Whenever Ezeulu considered the immensity of his power over the year and the crops and, therefore, over the people he wondered if it was real. It was true he named the day for the feast of the Pumpkin Leaves and for the New Yam feast; but he did not choose it. He was merely a watchman. His power was no more than the power of a child over a goat that was said to be his.
©1964 by Chinua Achebe

A. Respected B. Anticipated C. Pondered D. Allowed
Answer: C

3. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Researchers have long debated the origins of silver used in European coins from the 600s through the early 800s CE. Geochemical analysis by Kershaw et al. of 49 coins dating to 660-820 CE provides concrete evidence that reconciles two competing theories: early coins were made from Byzantine silver, and later coins used Frankish silver, findings that provide firm details in a previously ______ area of study. A. authoritative B. speculative C. esoteric D. solitary
Answer: B

4. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? In the search for new impact craters on Mars, the roles of seismic monitoring and orbital imaging as data sources are ______: when vibrations detected with seismic monitoring indicate roughly where an impact has occurred, researchers can use orbital images of that relatively limited area of the rocky surface to precisely locate a new crater. A. complementary B. interchangeable C. exhaustive D. redundant
Answer: A

5. Which choice best states the main purpose of the text? Understanding juvenile sea turtles' migratory patterns is crucial for conservation efforts. While adult sea turtles are well studied, little is known about juveniles during their oceanic stage, when they spend most of their time in the open ocean. To learn about this stage, researchers tagged and released six juvenile green sea turtles (Chelonia mydas) into the eastern Caribbean Sea. Their findings revealed that the majority of the turtles passively drifted with ocean currents throughout the region. However, two individuals swam against the currents, possibly in search of foraging grounds off the coast of South America. A. To suggest reasons why some juvenile sea turtles swim against the ocean currents B. To describe successful conservation efforts for sea turtles C. To summarize research on an understudied stage of sea turtle development D. To compare the behavior of adult and juvenile sea turtles during migration
Answer: C

6. Which choice best states the function of the underlined sentence? Magical realism, a style that weaves fantasy into realistic narratives, coalesced in Latin America in the 1960s. It is associated with Gabriel García Márquez, whose Big Mama's Funeral is a key text. The style was embraced by Mexican American writers, such as Rudolfo Anaya, whose Bless Me, Ultima draws on Mexican folktales as a source of fantasy. Yet Tortuga, also by Anaya, features no fantastical plot events. And despite his popular reputation, García Márquez himself wrote several works of strict realism, including Love in the Time of Cholera. A. To suggest that Mexican American authors who were influenced by García Márquez may have, in turn, influenced him B. To challenge the common assumption that Big Mama's Funeral is superior to realist works by García Márquez C. To refute the possible impression that García Márquez conformed to magical realism in all of his works D. To identify an unrecognized point of similarity between Love in the Time of Cholera and Bless Me, Ultima
Answer: C

7. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? In a section of a 1976 essay discussing cinema of the United States, James Baldwin observed that Lady Sings the Blues (1972), a biographical film about jazz singer Billie Holiday, can be said to reflect Holiday's life and the experiences of Black Americans only "by courtesy." According to Baldwin, the failure of this film to authentically represent its subject matter is indicative of a larger trend in films of the era: rather than leveraging the medium's potential to confront difficult truths, filmmakers and studios often resorted to platitudes about contemporary US society. A. It conveys Baldwin's rejection of contemporary US cinema in favor of earlier films that are more authentic representations of society. B. It characterizes the nature of the disconnect Baldwin identified between reality and how it was represented in US cinema. C. It illustrates a view of Baldwin's that the text explains departed substantially from the consensus view held by US film critics. D. It expresses Baldwin's initial reaction to a US film that the text suggests he would later reconsider.
Answer: B

8. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? Microwave heating, a thermal technology used to preserve food on an industrial scale, is generally considered to be an improvement over more conventional thermal preservation methods. Scientists in Latin America have contributed to a better understanding of this technology, with researchers from Brazil demonstrating its effectiveness in preserving mango peels. As research continues, scientists hope to make advancements in hybrid systems combining multiple food preservation technologies, which would be advantageous over using microwave heating alone, given that it often heats food unevenly. A. It suggests an advantage that microwave heating has over conventional thermal processing methods. B. It identifies a flaw of microwave heating technologies. C. It explains why conventional thermal processing methods are popular in commercial applications. D. It introduces microwave heating as a food processing technology.
Answer: B

Percent

9. Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the sentence?
Percentage of US Congress Members Who Self-Identified as Veterans, 1953-2023
80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
1953 1973 1993 2003 2013 2023
Year
House of Representatives
Senate

Since the nation's earliest days, both houses of the United States Congress have counted many military veterans among their elected officials, including Hiram L. Fong (who served in the US Army Air Force) and Ralph Harold Metcalfe Sr. (who served in the US Army). A research institute gathered historical data about congressional members who have reported past military experience and determined that ______ A. the percentage of those members decreased substantially in both houses of Congress from 1973 to 2013. B. from 2003 to 2023, the House of Representatives had a higher percentage of those members than the Senate did. C. the percentage of those members remained fairly consistent, regardless of house, from 1993 to 2023. D. from 1953 to 2003, those members constituted a majority in both houses of Congress.
Answer: A

10. Which quotation from The Man in the Brown Suit most effectively illustrates the claim? The Man in the Brown Suit is a 1924 novel by Agatha Christie. In the novel, the protagonist, Anne Beddingfeld, talks about how much her father disliked living in the present era, saying, ______ A. "[Papa's] mind dwelt in Palaeolithic times, and the inconvenience of life for him was that his body inhabited the modern world." B. "The opinion of other people never interested [Papa] in the slightest degree." C. "Although [Papa] was a fellow of almost every important society, and had rows of letters after his name, the general public scarcely knew of his existence." D. "In a few minutes Papa stalked off."
Answer: A

11. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the student's conclusion?

Average Hours Worked per Person per Year in 1950 and 2017

Country 1950 2017 Change in hours Percent change in hours

Peru

2,157 1,932

-225

-10%

Argentina 2,034 1,692

-342

-17%

Australia 2,178 1,731

-447

-21%

Ireland 2,419 1,746

-674

-28%

Calculations may be inexact due to rounding.

A student in an economics course is examining the decline since 1950 in average hours worked per person per year in various nations due to both increased productivity and the adoption of policies that limit working hours. The first task in this investigation is to determine how the decline in Argentina compares to that in other countries. The student finds that ______

A. the percent decrease in hours worked was greater in Argentina than it was in Ireland, Australia, or Peru.

B. though the decline in number of hours worked in Argentina was less than that in Ireland and Australia, it was greater than that in Peru.

C. while the number of hours worked rose in Argentina between 1950 and 2017, it declined in Ireland, Australia, and Peru.

D. though the decline in number of hours worked in Argentina was greater than that in Ireland and Peru, it was less than that in Australia.

Answer: B

12. Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researchers' conclusion?
In subtropical Asia, Apis dorsata (giant honeybee) plays an essential role in pollinating a wide variety of crops and wild plants. To study how different agricultural land covers affect the species, Rika Raffiudin and colleagues monitored the foraging activity of the bees as well as the pollen content of the honey from A. dorsata colonies at two sites in Indonesia: Kampar, characterized by its surrounding monoculture farms (growing a single crop), and Kerinci, a forest-agriculture site where multiple crops, including hot peppers and coffee, are grown nearby. The researchers concluded that a lack of crop variety may reduce total pollen collection by A. dorsata.
A. Pollen in honey samples from Kampar bee colonies was predominantly sourced from a single plant species, whereas pollen in honey samples from Kerinci bee colonies was sourced from multiple different plant species.
B. Honey samples from Kerinci bee colonies contained significantly higher concentrations of pollen than honey samples from Kampar bee colonies did.
C. In one Kerinci bee colony, a greater proportion of bees returned to their nests with pollen than returned without pollen, whereas the inverse was observed in a second Kerinci bee colony.
D. Significantly fewer bees were observed engaging in foraging activities with the crops surrounding Kerinci than with the crops surrounding Kampar.
Answer: B

13. Which finding, if true, would most directly weaken the researcher's claim?
The Rarámuri language of northern Mexico has 20 vowel and consonant sounds. In contrast, the Taa language of southern Africa has over 100. Why would languages differ in this way? One researcher has claimed that when modern humans arose in Africa, they spoke a single language, but as humans gradually spread throughout Africa and then around the globe, that language developed into new languages. Those developed into still more languages as small bands of humans spread even farther, with each new language retaining fewer sounds from humanity's original language.
A. A wider range of sounds is found across the languages of Africa as a whole than across the languages of South America as a whole.
B. The number of sounds is fairly consistent across the various languages that emerged in the last parts of Africa to be settled by humans.
C. Languages that emerged in Europe and Western Asia tend to have more sounds than languages that emerged in Africa do.
D. Languages that emerged in Central America tend to have fewer sounds than languages that emerged in Western Europe do, and Central America is farther away from Africa than Western Europe is.
Answer: C

14. Which choice most logically completes the text?
All stainless steel contains varying amounts of iron, carbon, and corrosion-inhibiting chromium. However, ferritic stainless steel, often used for cooking utensils, contains a higher percentage of chromium (at least 10.5%) than does austenitic stainless steel and a higher concentration of iron, which is responsible for its magnetic properties. Unlike ferritic stainless steel, austenitic stainless steel has a face-centered cubic crystalline structure resulting from the addition of nickel to the alloy. Austenitic stainless steel has two subtypes: the 200 series, often used for home water tanks, and the 300 series, which has more nickel than the 200 series and is often used for mining and chemical equipment or furnaces. Thus, stainless steel used to manufacture ______
A. cooking utensils will have a face-centered cubic crystalline structure.
B. mining and chemical equipment will have a concentration of chromium lower than 10.5%, while stainless steel used to manufacture home water tanks will not.
C. furnaces will have similar magnetic properties to stainless steel used to manufacture cooking utensils.
D. home water tanks will have a lower percentage of chromium in its composition than stainless steel used for cooking utensils will.
Answer: D

15. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Outi Tervo and team studied the effect of human-caused noise on narwhals (Monodon monoceros), arctic marine mammals that are sensitive to acoustic changes in their environment. Hypothesizing that elevated sound levels affect foraging among narwhals, Tervo's team compared narwhal diving behaviors in natural sound conditions with those behaviors in two human-caused sound exposure conditions--ship sounds and ship sounds coupled with sonic pulses. Both exposure conditions resulted in significant decreases in the number and target depth of deep dives (associated with foraging) relative to natural conditions. However, differences between diving behaviors in the two exposure types were negligible, a finding that could be attributed to the fact that ______
A. the narwhals weren't as sensitive to human-caused sounds as the researchers had predicted.
B. sonic pulses can be heard at significantly greater ocean depths than ship sounds can.
C. narwhals forage at shallower depths in the presence of ship sounds alone than in the presence of ship sounds coupled with sonic pulses.
D. ship sounds contribute so much to the overall sound level that the addition of sonic pulses has little effect on the narwhals' auditory environment.
Answer: D

16. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The Temple Street Night Market is a public market in Hong Kong that ______ operating decades ago. It is still active today, drawing shoppers who seek everything from street food to handmade textiles and gifts. A. began B. will begin C. begins D. would begin
Answer: A

17. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Featured among the more than 120 photographs in the 2021 exhibition The New Woman Behind the Camera, Olga Máté's ______ "Fisherman's Dock" offers a glimpse back in time to 1930. A. photograph B. photograph; C. photograph: D. photograph,
Answer: A

18. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Enacted in 1868, Luxembourg's 5,601-word constitution, in contrast to Belgium's, which was enacted in 1831 and contains a far greater number (16,119) of words, ______ as the 9th shortest in the world. Such data are studied by constitutional scholars like Giovanni Sartori, who can use them to draw broader conclusions. A. ranks B. have ranked C. rank D. are ranking
Answer: A

19. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? As a behavioral economist, Heather Sarsons of the University of British Columbia explores how psychological factors (such as emotion and bias) influence the economic choices that individuals ______ Sarsons's research considers the broader effects these choices have on the economy. A. make, moreover, B. make; moreover, C. make, moreover; D. make, moreover.
Answer: B

20. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? A 2024 study cataloged all the trees in Amsterdam to evaluate the biodiversity of the city's urban forest. The researchers, finding that administrative unit GM16 had a 0.66 ratio of native to non-native trees, ______ efforts to improve the biodiversity of the trees in that unit and other areas with a similarly moderate ratio. A. having recommended B. to recommend C. recommended D. recommending
Answer: C

21. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Astronomers Annie and Edward Maunder meticulously studied historical records of dark areas on the sun's surface known as sunspots. Their work in the late 1800s led to the identification of a period from 1645 to 1715--now known as the Maunder ______ sunspots were notably scarce, a phenomenon that solar physicists continue to investigate. A. Minimum when B. Minimum--when C. Minimum, when D. Minimum: when
Answer: C

22. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Though its onboard laboratory allowed it to analyze rock samples on-site, the 2011 Mars Curiosity rover was unable to preserve samples for future analysis. ______ when creating the 2020 Mars Perseverance rover, robotics technologist Shreyansh Daftry and other members of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory sought to implement a mechanism that could do exactly that. A. Specifically, B. Earlier, C. Similarly, D. Hence,
Answer: D

23. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? As Iestyn Barr and his team of researchers discovered when establishing the glacial timeline of Antarctica, the Transantarctic Mountains--a 3,500-km mountain range spanning the continent--are home to glaciers of at least 60 million years in age. ______ the researchers concluded, Antarctica had glaciers long before the formation of its continent-wide ice sheet 34 million years ago. A. Thus, B. Nevertheless, C. By contrast, D. Even so,
Answer: A

24. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In a 1948 article titled "The Language of Lines," Brazilian photographer José Yalenti argued that black-and-white photography's distinctive--and in his view, superior-- use of lines is what elevates the medium to the status of fine art. ______ Yalenti insisted that conveying perspective through linear forms is photography's "indisputable and exclusive domain," creating a visual language surpassing even celebrated painters' works. A. However, B. Even so, C. Indeed, D. In any case,
Answer: C

25. The student wants to emphasize a similarity between the two sculptures. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
I Call Your Image to Mind... is a 2004 sculpture by Welsh artist Cerith Wyn Evans. It is crafted from white neon lighting that spells out the title phrase ("I call your image to mind"). Ginger is a 2023 sculpture by Japanese artist Rikako Kawauchi. It is crafted from pink neon lighting that forms an abstract squiggle shape. A. Both Evans's and Kawauchi's sculptures are crafted from neon lighting. B. Kawauchi's sculpture Ginger consists of pink neon lighting in an abstract squiggle shape. C. The neon lighting in I Call Your Image to Mind... is white, but the lighting in Ginger is pink. D. Rather than spelling out a phrase, Kawauchi's sculpture forms an abstract squiggle shape.
Answer: A

26. The student wants to compare the length of time Laura J. Hecox and Catherine A. Moore worked as lighthouse keepers. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Lighthouses send out crucial light signals to help ships and other watercraft navigate at night. Before automation, lighthouses were run by lighthouse keepers. Laura J. Hecox was the lighthouse keeper at Santa Cruz Light in California. She held this position for thirty-four years (1883-1917). Catherine A. Moore was the lighthouse keeper at Black Rock Harbor Light in Connecticut. She held this position for sixty-one years (1817-1878).
A. From 1883 to 1917, the nighttime waters of California were more navigable thanks to lighthouse keepers Laura J. Hecox and Catherine A. Moore.
B. Laura J. Hecox and Catherine A. Moore were both lighthouse keepers at a time when such a person was needed to operate a lighthouse.
C. Laura J. Hecox worked as a lighthouse keeper for thirty-four years, but Catherine A. Moore did so for even longer: sixty-one years.
D. Before automation, lighthouse keepers like Laura J. Hecox, who served for thirty-four years, and Catherine A. Moore were crucial to ensuring safe navigation for watercraft.
Answer: C

27. The student wants to indicate the location of the East Falkland Isthmus. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
An isthmus is a strip of land that connects two larger pieces of land across an expanse of water. It is also known as a land bridge. The East Falkland Isthmus connects Lafonia to the northern part of East Falkland. The East Falkland Isthmus is located in the Falkland Islands. A. The East Falkland Isthmus is located in the Falkland Islands, where it connects Lafonia to the northern part of East Falkland. B. One example of an isthmus is the East Falkland Isthmus. C. An isthmus, also known as a land bridge, is a strip of land that connects two larger pieces of land across an expanse of water. D. An isthmus, or land bridge, like the East Falkland Isthmus, connects two larger pieces of land.
Answer: A

149. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Microplastics are a common pollutant in large masses of water like oceans. High concentrations and ______ among particles--variations in size, shape, and material-- make it onerous to comprehensively classify the microplastics in a water sample, so Ojeda-Benítez et al. are exploring a device to help quickly and accurately identify certain characteristics. A. incompatibilities B. disruptions C. inconsistencies D. restraints
Answer: C

150. As used in the text, what does the word "mastery" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from Alice Dunbar Nelson's 1899 short story "The Fisherman of Pass Christian." Pass Christian is a city in the US state of Mississippi.
The swift breezes on the beach at Pass Christian meet and conflict as though each strove for the mastery of the air. The land-breeze blows down through the pines, resinous, fragrant, cold, bringing breath-like memories of dim, dark woods shaded by myriad pine-needles. The breeze from the Gulf is warm and soft and languorous, blowing up from the south with its suggestion of tropical warmth. A. Familiarity B. Comprehension C. Domination D. Skillfulness
Answer: C

152. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The dinosaur displays at museums such as the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County in Los Angeles (which has a mounted Allosaurus fragilis skeleton among its holdings) are notable for the ______ of the research behind them--the museum staff consulted numerous sources to ensure the accuracy of the displays. A. shallowness B. novelty C. obscurity D. rigor
Answer: D

153. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? Moving beyond a simple "present or absent" designation, researchers created a new classification system that allows for a nuanced understanding of bioluminescence in marine organisms that was unavailable under binary classification systems. The new six-point scale considers varying levels of supporting evidence used to identify bioluminescent species. For example, the splendid ponyfish scores 1 because of inconsistent reports, the emperor squid scores 4 because of its anatomical similarity to known luminous relatives, and the violet cod scores 6 because of substantiated direct observations. A. It explains the basis for the new system's scoring criteria. B. It explains how the new classification system was derived from the previous binary system. C. It justifies the need for a new classification system for marine species. D. It emphasizes the thoroughness of the research conducted.
Answer: A

154. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? Adult glass eels can be found off the coast of Maine, but the eels begin their lives in the Sargasso Sea, a biodiverse area in the North Atlantic Ocean where they are born and later return to breed. Though biologists believe they have identified the general area in the Sargasso Sea that is crucial to the endangered eels' survival, little is yet known about how the animals spawn there. Scientists believe that solving the mystery will lead to better conservation of glass eels and their habitat, helping in turn to sustain several other species that rely on them as a food source. A. It presents a finding from a study that identifies the circumstances required to ensure the survival of glass eels. B. It indicates that the benefit of understanding glass eels' spawning behavior extends beyond the eels. C. It suggests that scientists are more concerned about other species than about glass eels' habitat. D. It discusses a role that glass eels and other species serve in supporting the ecosystem of the Sargasso Sea.
Answer: B

155. Which choice best states the main purpose of the text? The following text is adapted from Henry James's 1916 short story "The Pupil." A man is being considered for a position as a live-in tutor for a woman's child.
The poor young man hesitated and procrastinated: it cost him such an effort to broach the subject of terms, to speak of money to a person who spoke only of feelings and, as it were, of the aristocracy. Yet he was unwilling to take leave, treating his engagement as settled, without some more conventional glance in that direction than he could find an opening for in the manner of the large affable lady who sat there drawing a pair of soiled [suede gloves] through a jewelled hand and, at once pressing and gliding, repeated over and over everything but the thing he would have liked to hear. A. It criticizes a person for being excessively timid. B. It draws a sharp contrast between the personalities of two people. C. It describes a person's unsuccessful attempt to change someone's mind. D. It portrays the difficulty a person has with raising a topic of conversation.
Answer: D

156. Which statement about the Museo de Las Americas is best supported by the text? Founded in 1991, the Museo de Las Americas showcases art from Latin America, including the art of Indigenous peoples. It is located in Denver and has more than 4,800 objects in its collection. Since 2000, a number of other institutions devoted to Latino cultures have opened in the United States. A notable example is Casa de Rosado in Lansing, Michigan. It focuses on the arts and cultures of Latino communities in Michigan. A. It is visited by more people than any other Latino cultural institution in the US. B. It was founded after 2000. C. Its collection includes over 4,800 objects. D. It is no longer located in Denver.

Answer: C

157. What does the text most directly suggest about translation apps? Linguist John McWhorter asserts that translation apps for smartphones and computers are--despite generally failing to convey many nuances--increasingly obviating the need to learn new languages. Advances in language processing technology have greatly boosted the utility of these apps for perfunctory tasks, like inquiring about an item on a menu, and passing interactions; be that as it may, richer communication (e.g., in business dealings or meaningful personal exchanges) often hinges on conversational patterns and gradations of meaning. A. They are coming to be embraced by international tourists but are viewed with skepticism by many business professionals. B. They have improved remarkably over time but remain insufficient to support the complexity called for in certain interactions. C. They are becoming simpler to use but are inconsistent in how comprehensively they cover different languages. D. They have gained impressive capabilities but continue to be widely viewed as inadequate for most practical purposes.
Answer: B

159. Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the statement?

Adhesion strength (kPa)

Mean Adhesion Strength of Graphite and Acrylamide Gel,
at Varying Voltages

45

40

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

0

1

2

3

Voltage (V)

graphite-AAm pair

Wenhao Xu and colleagues demonstrated that applying a low direct current electrical field to graphite (a conductor) and an acrylamide (AAm) gel can increase how strongly materials adhere to each other. At some voltages, adhesion strength--as measured in kilopascals (kPa) of stress needed to pull the materials apart--was high (more than 30 kPa). But the mere application of a direct current electrical field with positive voltage is not sufficient to cause increased adhesion, as evidenced by the fact that ______ A. at 1 V, mean adhesion strength was approximately equal to adhesion strength at 0 V. B. at 3 V, mean adhesion strength reached its highest observed level at approximately 30 kPa. C. at 0 V, mean adhesion strength was equal to 0 kPa. D. at 2 V, mean adhesion strength was lower than it was at both 1 V and 3 V.
Answer: A

160. Which choice best describes data from the table that support the student's claim?

Members of the Girl Scouts of America, by Age Category, 1992-1995 (in thousands)

Category

1992 1993 1994 1995

Cadettes (11-14 years) 188 168 174 172

Juniors (8-11 years) 870 791 756 727

Brownies (6-8 years) 1,319 1,225 1,181 1,142

Daisies (5-6 years) 207 191 190 195

The Girl Scouts of America is an organization famous for its annual sales of several varieties of cookies, including Tagalongs. A student is writing an essay on the history of the organization. The student claims that from 1992 to 1995 the organization's popularity regularly peaked among participants in a certain age range before declining among older participants as Girl Scout activities began to compete with other interests.

A. Only once between 1992 and 1995 did the number of Juniors in the Girl Scouts exceed the number of Brownies.

B. There were 1,319,000 Brownies in the Girl Scouts in 1992 but 1,142,000 in 1995.

C. For each year from 1992 to 1995, there were fewer Juniors in the Girl Scouts than there were Brownies.

D. Throughout the years from 1992 to 1995, the number of Daisies in the Girl Scouts exceeded the number of Juniors.

Answer: C

162. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Mia Heavener's 2019 novel Under Nushagak Bluff, which takes place in a mid-twentieth-century rural Alaskan fishing ______ the story of three Yup'ik women who grapple with the rise of commercial fisheries and other changes affecting their community. A. village. Tells B. village tells C. village: tells D. village, tells
Answer: D

163. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Many works of the Greek dramatist Menander (4th century BCE) are ______ his Dyskolos, a comedy about a misanthrope, is an extant work: it can still be read. A. lost and conversely, B. lost. Conversely, C. lost, conversely, D. lost, and conversely
Answer: B

164. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Sergeant First Class Modesto Cartagena was a soldier in the United States 65th Infantry Regiment, a Puerto Rico-based regiment of the US Army. In 2016, the United States Congress honored Cartagena and the other servicepeople of the 65th Infantry Regiment with one of its highest ______ Congressional Gold Medal. A. honors; the B. honors the C. honors: the D. honors (the
Answer: C

165. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Growing as large as three meters in diameter, the leaves of the giant Amazonian waterlily feature a complex network of radiating veins that provide structural ______ in thickness from the center to the edges, these veins allow the leaves to maintain their large size and buoyancy with minimal material, optimizing light capture and photosynthesis. A. support, decreasing B. support. Decreasing C. support decreasing D. support, while decreasing
Answer: B

166. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Recordings of electrical activity in the brain, ______ increased activity in brain areas associated with suppressing motor functions. A. hypothetical match scenario responses show that the most highly skilled soccer players captured in electrograms have B. the most highly skilled soccer players responding to hypothetical match scenarios have electrograms that show C. electrograms show that while responding to hypothetical match scenarios, the most highly skilled soccer players have D. responses to hypothetical match scenarios show that the most highly skilled soccer players have electrograms with
Answer: C

167. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Bertie Marshall, a key figure in the history of steel band music in Trinidad and Tobago, made several innovations to the steel ______ wheels so the instrument could be easily transported during Carnival, a cover to protect the pans from the sun, and amplification so the sound of the pans could be better heard over large crowds and other instrumentation. A. drum; B. drum: C. drum, D. drum
Answer: B

168. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In eastern Mexico, Monument 3 and Monument 61 are the names given to two massive human head statues that were left behind by the ancient Olmec civilization. Both statues are made of stone and are extremely heavy. ______ they each weigh more than 5 tons! A. In fact, B. Earlier, C. In any case, D. Instead,
Answer: A

169. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? While most animals prefer the safety of nighttime migration, many poisonous amphibians--a category that includes the Cuban toad and the eastern newt--safely engage in migratory behavior during the day. ______ with the sun in the sky, the amphibians' striking color patterns deter visually oriented daytime predators by serving as a warning of toxicity. A. In other words, B. For example, C. At that time, D. However,
Answer: C

170. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? While some researchers have identified the planet Kepler-1632b as potentially habitable, it's unlikely that humanity will be able to take advantage of its favorable conditions anytime soon--it's 2,337 light years away. ______ humanity must first focus on making planets within our solar system more habitable. A. Next, B. Likewise, C. For example, D. Instead,
Answer: D

171. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? When ordering the branches of the Yukon River system, cartographers tend to begin with the riverway's lowest point, the Yukon River. ______ hydrologists begin at the top of the river system, with the Kanuti River and other tributaries fed by the riverway's source, Alaska's Llewellyn Glacier. A. For example, B. In other words, C. In a similar way, D. By contrast,
Answer: D

172. The student wants to explain why humans must get vitamin C from food. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Lemons are fruits that contain ascorbic acid, an essential nutrient for humans. Every 100 grams (g) of lemon contains 53 milligrams (mg) of ascorbic acid. Many animals can make ascorbic acid in their bodies, but humans cannot. Humans must get ascorbic acid from foods, including fruits and vegetables. Ascorbic acid is also known as vitamin C.
A. Since humans cannot make vitamin C in their bodies, they must get this essential nutrient from foods like lemons.
B. Many animals can make ascorbic acid, which is also known as vitamin C, in their bodies.
C. Lemons contain vitamin C, which humans must get from food.
D. There is 53 mg of vitamin C, an essential nutrient for humans, in every 100 g of lemon.
Answer: A

174. The student wants to emphasize a similarity between St. Paul's Bay and Almaty. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Usually, a country's capital is also its largest city by population. The capital of Malta is Valletta. Its largest city by population is St. Paul's Bay. The capital of Kazakhstan is Nur-Sultan. Its largest city by population is Almaty.
A. The most populous city in Malta is St. Paul's Bay, but its capital is Valletta.
B. Although neither is a capital city, both St. Paul's Bay and Almaty are the most populous cities in their countries.
C. The capital of Malta is Valletta; the capital of Kazakhstan is Nur-Sultan.
D. While St. Paul's Bay is in Malta, Almaty is in Kazakhstan.
Answer: B

295. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The success of the Chicano Park murals in San Diego, California--the world's largest concentration of murals celebrating Chicano culture--exemplifies how collaborative art initiatives can ______ their communities in multiple ways, including enhancing public spaces and giving nonartists a chance to express themselves. A. predict B. deny C. avoid D. enrich
Answer: D

301. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
Tomi Adeyemi's first published work, the inventive West African-inspired fantasy novel Children of Blood and Bone, has intriguing things to say about the relationship between identity and power. Adeyemi works in a decades-long tradition going back to writers such as Samuel Delany and Octavia Butler, who wove cultural elements of the Black diaspora into their science fiction and fantasy in a movement known as Afrofuturism. At its core, the movement is characterized by speculation, not just about distant futures or other planets but also about alternate versions of our shared past. Afrofuturism's meditations on authority reinvigorate the creative potential of fiction.
A. It praises a newly published author, compares that author with others who might appear superficially similar, and then points out the features of that author's work that make it unique.
B. It summarizes a book, describes characteristics of the artistic movement of which the book is a part, and then points out the features the book shares with more widely read works.
C. It introduces an intriguing debut work, contextualizes that work as part of an ongoing literary tradition, and then describes important themes of that tradition.
D. It notes the political stance of an author, compares that author's book to other earlier works, and then analyzes the influence of political events on the book.
Answer: C

303. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Examples of Hoards Found in Ireland and Northern Ireland

Hoard name

Date of contents Year of discovery

Description

Derrinboy Hoard 14th-13th century BCE 1957-1958

gold jewelry

Armagh City Hoard 14th century CE

1998

silver coins

Ardagh Hoard

10th century CE

1868

silver and bronze pieces

An anthropologist is recording the metal contents of various historical deposits of valuables, called hoards, found in Ireland and Northern Ireland. He notes that the hoards differed in their contents; for example, ______

A. the Derrinboy Hoard was the only hoard that contained silver.

B. the Ardagh Hoard was the only hoard that contained bronze.

C. the Derrinboy Hoard contained no gold or silver.

D. neither the Armagh City Hoard nor the Ardagh Hoard contained bronze.

Answer: B

305. Which quotation from a translation of The Underdogs most effectively illustrates the claim? The Underdogs is a 1915 novel by Mariano Azuela, originally written in Spanish. In the novel, Azuela depicts the character Camilla as experiencing a change in how she perceives her immediate surroundings: ______ A. "Camilla stared up at the blue sky so [Luis] should not read the expression in her eyes." B. "[Camilla] closed her eyes fast to hold back the tears that welled up in them. Then, with the back of her hand, she wiped her wet cheeks, and just as she had done three days ago, fled with all the swiftness of a young deer." C. "Camilla, standing on the beach of washed, round stones, caught a reflection of herself in the waters." D. "All nature was as she had found it before, evening upon evening; but in the stones and the dry weeds, amid the fragrance of the air and the light whir of falling leaves, Camilla sensed a new strangeness, a vast desolation in everything about her."
Answer: D

308. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Population and Population Density of African Countries in 2015

Country Density (inhabitants/km²) Area (km²) Estimated population

Lesotho

70.3

30,355

2,135,000

Mali

14.2

1,240,000

17,600,000

Zambia

21.5

752,614

16,212,000

Benin

96.6

112,620

10,880,000

As the second-most populous continent in the world, Africa was home to an estimated 1.186 billion people in 2015. In a paper for a social studies class, a student nonetheless notes that countries with very large populations may be less densely populated than are countries with much smaller populations, as can be seen by comparing ______

A. Zambia, which has a low density, with Benin, which has a similar density despite both countries having different geographic sizes.

B. the geographic size of Mali (1,240,000 square kilometers) with its relatively high population of 17,600,000 inhabitants.

C. Mali, which has a high population of 17,600,000 inhabitants and a relatively low density of 14.2 inhabitants/square kilometer, with Lesotho, which has a much lower population and a higher density.

D. the populations of both Lesotho and Benin in 2015 with their populations in 2010.

Answer: C

312. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Museo del Autonomismo Puertorriqueño, a history museum in Ponce, Puerto Rico, is one of more than eighty museums in the US territory. These museums present a wide range of information about Puerto Rico, showcasing everything from the territory's history to ______ architecture to its coffee. A. their B. they're C. it's D. its
Answer: D

317. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The visual magnitude scale, which measures the brightness of stars, is reverse logarithmic: the brighter a star, the lower its magnitude number. ______ the star Alnilam, the 29th brightest in the sky, has a higher visual magnitude number (1.69) than does the brighter star Castor. The 24th-brightest star, Castor has a magnitude of 1.62. A. Nonetheless, B. Moreover, C. On the other hand, D. Hence,
Answer: D

319. The student wants to emphasize the order in which the supercontinents were formed. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
A supercontinent is a single landmass made up of most or all of Earth's continents. Over time, continents merge together to form supercontinents, which then break apart. This process is believed to take hundreds of millions of years and is known as the supercontinent cycle. Ur was a supercontinent that formed about 3.1 billion years ago. Gondwana was a supercontinent that formed about 510 million years ago.
A. The supercontinent Gondwana formed long after the supercontinent Ur.
B. Ur and Gondwana were both supercontinents, single landmasses made up of most or all of Earth's continents.
C. Ur formed about 3.1 billion years ago but eventually broke apart.
D. Forming and breaking apart over hundreds of millions of years, supercontinents are made up of most or all of Earth's continents.
Answer: A

321. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize a difference between the two paintings?
Calida Garcia Rawles is an African American painter. She is known for her large-scale, hyperrealistic paintings depicting African American figures in water. The painting Lost in the Shuffle (36 × 24 in) depicts two young men with their arms outstretched floating in the bottom left and upper right corners of the canvas. Guardian (96 × 48 in) depicts a woman in a white dress floating in the center of the canvas. She paints the water with vivid blue colors, including sapphire blue and ultramarine. The mood in the paintings is serene.
A. Calida Garcia Rawles captures the water in paintings such as Lost in the Shuffle and Guardian in vivid hues of sapphire blue and ultramarine.
B. While some of Rawles's works, such as Lost in the Shuffle, feature two figures in the composition, Guardian features one figure floating in the vivid blue water.
C. Although the number of figures may differ, constant among Rawles's hyperrealistic works is the serene mood that the paintings evoke.
D. Among the many stunning works of Calida Garcia Rawles is Guardian, a serene 96-by-48-inch painting depicting a woman floating in a white dress in the vivid blue water.
Answer: B

442. As used in the text, what does the phrase "steals away" most nearly mean? The following text is from Alice Moore Dunbar-Nelson's 1895 poem "In Memoriam." The speaker describes sunshine coming into a cathedral.
The light streams through the windows arched high, And o'er the stern, stone carvings breaks In warm rich gold and crimson waves, Then steals away in corners dark to die. A. Restores itself B. Slips away C. Spots itself D. Works away
Answer: B

443. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Scientists have used machine learning tools to study elephant sounds, uncovering a sophisticated communication system. The tools ______ unique patterns in the rumbling sounds elephants make. The scientists claim that these patterns are specific calls the elephants use for individuals, similar to names. A. scattered B. corrected C. created D. detected
Answer: D

445. As used in the text, what does the word "consideration" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from Henry James's 1881 novel The Portrait of a Lady.
Everything Osmond did was pose--pose so subtly considered that if one were not on the lookout one mistook it for impulse. Ralph had never met a man who lived so much in the land of consideration. His tastes, his studies, his accomplishments, his collections, were all for a purpose. A. Calculation B. Indecision C. Courtesy D. Deference
Answer: A

449. According to the text, what is someone who professionally evaluates books called? The Search for Delicious was Natalie Babbitt's debut novel. It was published in 1969. A debut novel is the first book that an author has published. Debut novels are especially interesting to literary critics (people whose job it is to evaluate books) and readers because these books offer a look at new voices in the literary world. A. A book publisher B. A bookseller C. An author D. A literary critic
Answer: D

451. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Home Console and Computer Games of the 1980s

Title

Approximate number of units sold worldwide Genre Developer

Super Mario Land

18,140,000

platformer Nintendo R&D1

Baseball

3,200,000

sports Nintendo R&D1

Tetris

43,000,000

puzzle Nintendo R&D1

Kung Fu

3,500,000

action Nintendo R&D1

A student is writing a paper on the global rise of the home video game industry during the 1980s. The student is researching the relative popularity of various genres of console and computer games. Looking at the information in the table, the student finds that the games in the genres of ______

A. platformer and action sold nearly the same number of units.

B. puzzle and sports sold nearly the same number of units.

C. platformer and sports outsold the games in the other genres.

D. puzzle and platformer outsold the games in the other genres.

Answer: D

454. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the text?

Effect of Various Soil Treatments on Mean Pineapple Fruit Weight and Size

Soil treatment

Weight (grams) Length (centimeters) Diameter (centimeters)

Control

825.9

6.14

13.63

Biochar

915.7

6.56

13.63

Compost

864.8

6.15

13.22

Biochar and compost

979.3

6.76

13.68

Biochar and NPK fertilizer 1032.1

6.78

13.96

Working in Ghana, Emmanuel Hanyabui and colleagues compared the impact on pineapple growth of different combinations of soil additives, including NPK fertilizer (an inorganic fertilizer containing nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium), organic compost, and biochar (a carbon-rich material produced from organic waste matter). Based on data in the table, pineapple farmers with no access to inorganic soil additives would likely increase the weight and size of their fruits by the greatest amount by using ______

A. compost alone.

B. biochar and NPK fertilizer.

C. biochar and compost.

D. biochar alone.

Answer: C

456. Which choice most logically completes the text? A group of primate conservationists recently began a long-term study of the effects of different conservation strategies on the Perrier's sifaka (Propithecus perrieri). The species population is currently estimated to be around 500. It is challenging to accurately count these primates, however, which makes it difficult to tell whether the population is increasing, decreasing, or staying stable. The study may thus ______ A. risk making inaccurate conclusions about the effectiveness of different conservation strategies. B. cause other conservationists to adopt a new methodology for counting populations. C. benefit from including species beyond the Perrier's sifaka. D. fail to consider less-well-known conservation approaches for the Perrier's sifaka.
Answer: A

457. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Puerto Rico, it's not unusual for a city or town to be known by a nickname that corresponds to one of its notable features, like landscape, climate, famous residents, or chief export. For example, the Puerto Rican municipality of Gurabo is well known for the tall staircases that wind through the town ______ this distinction has earned it the fitting nickname of "the Town of the Stairs." A. center B. center, C. center; D. center and
Answer: C

460. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? ______ a US state when it ratified the US Constitution on June 21, 1788, was thereby empowered, via its representatives to the US Congress, to vote on whether to admit Alabama as a state on December 14, 1819. A. New Hampshire officially became B. New Hampshire would officially become C. New Hampshire, having officially become D. New Hampshire had officially become
Answer: C

461. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Working on an unimaginably small scale of billionths of a meter, nanoengineers have found ways to leverage graphene oxide ______ to increase the capacity of lithium-ion batteries.

A. nanoparticles properties B. nanoparticles' properties C. nanoparticles' properties' D. nanoparticle's properties
Answer: B

462. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Resins play several important roles in maintaining the health of conifers and many other kinds of trees. ______ resins quickly seal wounds, which helps prevent harmful insects and fungi from entering trees. These sticky substances also help trees retain water that is needed for them to survive. A. For example, B. However, C. Regardless, D. Next,
Answer: A

463. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Artists' palettes--the surfaces on which painters arrange and mix their paints--can provide valuable insights into the painters' creative processes. In her 2024 book The Artist's Palette, Alexandra Loske analyzes the palettes of 50 different painters across 500 years. ______ Loske reveals clues about the techniques and practices of such artists as Kerry James Marshall, Artemisia Gentileschi, and Vincent van Gogh. A. Lastly, B. In comparison, C. However, D. In doing so,
Answer: D

464. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize the discovery of (20161) 1996 TR66 to an audience already familiar with Jane Luu?
Minor planets are astronomical objects that orbit the Sun but are neither planets nor comets. Astronomer Jane Luu has discovered many minor planets in her career. Alongside colleagues David C. Jewitt, Jun Chen, and Chadwick Trujillo, she discovered the minor planet (20161) 1996 TR66 on October 8, 1996. Alongside colleagues David C. Jewitt and Chadwick Trujillo, she discovered the minor planet (385201) 1999 RN215 on September 7, 1999.
A. Astronomer Jane Luu helped discover not only the minor planet (20161) 1996 TR66 on October 8, 1996, but also (385201) 1999 RN215 on September 7, 1999.
B. First there was the discovery of (20161) 1996 TR66 on October 8, 1996, and then on September 7, 1999, Jane Luu discovered yet another minor planet with the help of her colleagues David C. Jewitt and Chadwick Trujillo.
C. Jane Luu is an astronomer famous for her discovery of many minor planets in our solar system, including (20161) 1996 TR66.
D. On October 8, 1996, Jane Luu and her colleagues David C. Jewitt, Jun Chen, and Chadwick Trujillo made the exciting discovery of the minor planet (20161) 1996 TR66.
Answer: D

466. The student wants to emphasize the combined deadweight tonnage of Panama's merchant ships in 2021. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
A merchant ship is any ship hired to carry cargo or passengers. A ship's carrying capacity is also known as its deadweight tonnage (DWT). In 2021, there were a total of 7,980 merchant ships registered in Panama. The combined DWT of these ships was 344.2 million tons. A. In 2021, Panama had 7,980 merchant ships hired to carry cargo or passengers. B. There were a total of 7,980 merchant ships--ships hired to carry cargo or passengers--registered in Panama in 2021. C. The carrying capacity of a merchant ship is also known as deadweight tonnage. D. Combined, Panama's merchant ships had a deadweight tonnage of 344.2 million tons in 2021.
Answer: D

467. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize Edison's reliance on Upton?
Thomas Edison is regarded as one of the most important inventors in US history. Having received little formal schooling, Edison relied on specialist employees at his various laboratories and offices to complete the technical work for many of his inventions. Francis Robbins Upton was a mathematician and physicist who worked at the Menlo Park laboratory. He is best known for inventing the electric fire alarm. John Kruesi was a machinist who worked at Edison Machine Works. He is best known for leading the installation of underground electricity distribution cables for the Edison Electric Tube Company.
A. Francis Robbins Upton, a mathematician and physicist, was known for his valuable contribution to the field of technology.
B. Having received little formal education, Thomas Edison depended on specialized employees, including mathematician and physicist Francis Robbins Upton, for many of his inventions.
C. Francis Robbins Upton, a mathematician and physicist, worked at the Menlo Park laboratory.
D. Most of Thomas Edison's employees had successful careers independent of working for him; for example, Francis Robbins Upton, who worked at the Menlo Park laboratory, was an accomplished mathematician and physicist.
Answer: B

468. The student wants to place the 1821 Declaration of Independence in the context of Valle's changing political beliefs. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Leaders of the Province of Guatemala proclaimed independence for Central America from the Spanish Empire on September 15, 1821. The accompanying Declaration of Independence was written by Honduran scholar and politician José Cecilio del Valle. The 1812 Spanish Constitution had provided some degree of independence for Central America, but it was repealed by the Spanish king in 1814. Valle, a loyal advisor to the Spanish Empire's administrators in Central America, had long opposed independence. He changed his mind after Colonel Rafael del Riego's 1820 revolt, which demanded the return of rights lost in 1814.
A. Long an opponent of Central American independence, Valle changed his mind after an 1820 revolt and wrote the 1821 declaration.
B. A change in Valle's political beliefs that occurred when the Spanish king repealed the 1812 constitution led to Valle writing Central America's Declaration of Independence.
C. Colonel Riego's revolt was the inspiration that Valle, a long-standing opponent of Central American independence, needed to change his political beliefs.
D. The writing of Central America's Declaration of Independence may not have happened were it not for Colonel Riego's 1820 revolt.
Answer: A

593. Which choice best states the main purpose of the text? The following text is from Robert Lowell's 1964 poem "For the Union Dead." The South Boston Aquarium closed permanently in 1954.
The old South Boston Aquarium stands in a Sahara of snow now. Its broken windows are boarded. The bronze weathervane cod has lost half its scales. The airy tanks are dry.
A. To describe details of the deteriorated state of a building B. To contrast the effects of different kinds of weather on a building C. To argue that a building should be rehabilitated D. To explain why a once-popular building was abandoned Answer: A

©2003 by Robert Lowell

597. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Brown Bears in Katmai National Park, Alaska

Bear identification number Sex Age (years) Approximate weight (pounds)

147

male

10

750

128

female 16

350

126

female

5

300

156

male

23

850

Scientists collected information about brown bears in Katmai National Park in Alaska. This information included each bear's sex, age, and approximate weight. The bear with the greatest approximate weight shown in the table was the bear with identification number ______

A. 156.

B. 126.

C. 147.

D. 128.

Answer: A

611. The student wants to emphasize a difference between Beaux and Artschwager. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The Carnegie Prize is an international art competition administered by the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Painter Cecilia Beaux of the US won a Carnegie Prize gold medal in 1899. Beaux's winning artwork was a painting entitled Mother and Daughter. Sculptor Richard Artschwager of the US won a Carnegie Prize gold medal in 1995. Artschwager's winning artwork was a sculpture entitled Table Prepared in the Presence of Enemies.
A. Beaux won a Carnegie Prize gold medal for a painting, while Artschwager won for a sculpture.
B. Carnegie Prize gold medals have been awarded to both painters and sculptors.
C. Both Beaux and Artschwager won Carnegie Prize gold medals for their artworks.
D. Beaux won a Carnegie Prize gold medal in 1899 for the painting Mother and Daughter.
Answer: A

613. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to introduce Acoustic Soul to an audience already familiar with India Arie? India Arie is an African American singer and songwriter. The media outlet BBC Music has described her music as a "blend of hip hop, soul and folk [that is] as subtle as it [is] inspired." Her first studio album, Acoustic Soul, was released in 2001. It features the song "Promises." Nioka Workman played cello on the album.
A. "Promises," a song by singer and songwriter India Arie, is featured on the album Acoustic Soul. B. Nioka Workman played cello on singer and songwriter India Arie's 2001 album, Acoustic Soul. C. Featuring the song "Promises," Acoustic Soul is India Arie's first studio album. D. India Arie's music has been described as a "blend of hip hop, soul and folk [that is] as subtle as it [is] inspired."
Answer: C

738. As used in the text, what does the word "traces" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from John Matheus's 1925 short story "Fog."
The fog extended its tentacles over city and river, gradually obliterating traces of familiar landscapes. At five-thirty the old Panhandle bridge, supported by massive sandstone pillars, stalwart, as when erected fifty years before to serve a generation now passed behind the portals of life, had become a spectral outline against the sky. A. Copies B. Memories C. Relics D. Indications
Answer: D

740. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Science fiction has long served as a ______ real-world technological advancements. Indeed, from Jules Verne's 1865 novel From the Earth to the Moon inspiring developments in aerospace engineering to the television show Star Trek sparking the design of the ancestor of today's smartphones, these narratives have spurred many actual innovations. A. diversion from B. catalyst of C. sponsor of D. constraint to
Answer: B

743. Based on the text, with which statement would Harold Bloom and James Merrill most likely agree? Though John Crowley, author of Engine Summer, is perhaps not as well known as the most widely read American writers of the past fifty years, his work has had several influential champions, including the poet James Merrill and the literary critic Harold Bloom. According to journalist Graeme Wood, Bloom claimed to have read Crowley's novel Little, Big at least forty-six times, and in his posthumously published afterword to a 2022 edition of the book, Bloom referred to Crowley as a "major writer" and said, "There is no other book by a writer still with us that I love as deeply." A. John Crowley is not an American writer. B. John Crowley's novel Little, Big does not deserve to be widely read. C. John Crowley's novel Little, Big should be read at least forty-six times. D. John Crowley is a very good writer.
Answer: D

744. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Approximate Numbers of Speakers of Four Native Languages

Language Region Number of speakers

Hopi

Southwest

6,080

Tlingit Alaska Panhandle

1,240

Zuni

Southwest

9,620

Mohawk Northeast

1,950

The Zuni language of the Southwest is one of the most widely spoken Native languages in what is now the continental United States, with approximately 9,620 speakers, according to a 2015 report by the US Census Bureau. Though spoken by fewer people than Zuni, the Hopi language of the Southwest nonetheless has a population of speakers that numbers in the thousands. The Census Bureau report indicates that in the US, Hopi is spoken by approximately ______

A. 1,950 people.

B. 1,240 people.

C. 9,620 people.

D. 6,080 people.

Answer: D

745. Which quotation from a student best illustrates the underlined claim? Museums sometimes make parts of their collections available online. The Albertina Museum in Vienna, Austria, and the Museo de Arte de Lima in Lima, Peru, have both shared digital images of some of their artworks in online collections. Online collections make it much easier for people to experience art belonging to museums that aren't located close to them. A. "The last time I went to a museum, I spent the whole day looking at different things on display." B. "The Albertina Museum is far away from where I live, but I was able to look at some of its art online today." C. "I probably won't visit the Albertina Museum because I don't like art museums very much." D. "My family members enjoy going to museums when they travel."
Answer: B

748. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Antonia Olivia Dolan and colleagues had musicians and nonmusicians with clinically average hearing listen to recordings of nature sounds and music in popular genres like classic rock and heavy metal and adjust the volume to optimize their listening enjoyment. The researchers found that for a given recording that a musician and nonmusician identified as their favorite among those included in the study, optimal volume tended to be higher for the musician than for the nonmusician. Thus, if a musician and nonmusician both identified Led Zeppelin's "Whole Lotta Love" as their favorite recording and the musician preferred to listen to it at a volume of 90.2 decibels, the nonmusician would be expected to ______
A. prefer listening to other music at 90.2 decibels over listening to "Whole Lotta Love" at that volume.
B. find listening to "Whole Lotta Love" at 90.2 decibels less enjoyable than listening to it at a lower volume.
C. not find it enjoyable to listen to any recordings at a volume as low as 90.2 decibels.
D. enjoy listening to the nature sounds at 90.2 decibels more than listening to "Whole Lotta Love" at 90.2 decibels.
Answer: B

749. Which choice most logically completes the text? Pablo Picasso famously subverted the norms of traditional painting: in his cubist paintings he refused to let his expression be constrained, fragmenting objects and figures to present multiple perspectives simultaneously. Though less widely known, Picasso--who once lamented that writers of his time had "limited themselves to moving around words somewhat while respecting the syntax"--also wrote poetry that defied conventional grammar, semantic relationships, and text structure. Thus, the paintings and poems are linked in that ______ A. the poems are intended to be understood as explanations of the artistic inclinations reflected in the paintings. B. both types of work are characterized by the simultaneous representation of multiple points of view that Picasso is known for. C. the poems present many of the same subjects as the paintings but with different thematic approaches. D. both exhibit Picasso's prioritization of creative expression over the standard rules of the art forms.
Answer: D

750. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Though best known as a novelist, in part due to the success of her 2020 horror novel Mexican Gothic, Silvia Moreno-Garcia started her career as a prolific short story writer. Before her breakout year in ______ Moreno-Garcia had published more than 75 short stories in a variety of literary outlets, including "The Moon Is Shattered" (2008) in Byzarium, "Jaguar Woman" (2009) in Shimmer, and "Collect Call" (2012) in Expanded Horizons. A. 2020. B. 2020 when C. 2020, D. 2020, when
Answer: C

751. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? As an archaeologist, Dr. Rubén G. ______ studies historical locations all across the US Southwest and Mesoamerica, a region that includes ancient Maya sites like Arroyo de Piedra in Guatemala. A. Mendoza B. Mendoza: C. Mendoza, D. Mendoza;
Answer: A

755. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In a chemical equation, the value known as molar mass is useful for converting between the mass of the reactants and the mass of the product. The liquid ______ have molar masses of 156.31 and 46.07 g/mol, respectively. A. compounds, undecane (C11H24) and ethanol (C2H5OH), B. compounds, undecane (C11H24) and ethanol (C2H5OH) C. compounds undecane (C11H24) and ethanol (C2H5OH) D. compounds undecane (C11H24) and ethanol (C2H5OH),
Answer: C

756. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Elvis Presley's iconic jumpsuit Blue Rain featured blue rhinestones. Historians note that adornments such as these added between twenty-five and fifty pounds to each of Elvis's stage outfits. ______ the fabric used to make the outfits was light and flexible, enabling freedom of motion. A. That is, B. On the other hand, C. There, D. For instance,
Answer: B

758. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Charles Demuth's 1931 painting Chimney and Water Tower is a classic Precisionist work. The Precisionists strove for cold, machine-like perfection, with crisp lines, geometric shapes, and smooth, brushstroke-free surfaces. ______ Precisionist works often feature skyscrapers, bridges, and factories, highlighting these angular structures' engineered symmetry. A. In the end, B. Accordingly, C. However, D. That said,
Answer: B

759. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? A team led by Portuguese researcher Isabel C.F.R. Ferreira found that many species of mushrooms contain chemicals called phenolic compounds, such as cinnamic acid and catechin. ______ Ferreira detected cinnamic acid in Agaricus blazei mushrooms and catechin in Lentinus edodes mushrooms. A. For this reason, B. However, C. Nevertheless, D. For example,
Answer: D

760. The student wants to emphasize a difference between the two bird species. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The Galápagos petrel is a species of bird found in the Galápagos Islands. It has an average weight of 425 grams. The small tree finch is a species of bird found in the Galápagos Islands. It has an average weight of 13 grams. A. The small tree finch and the Galápagos petrel can be found in the Galápagos Islands. B. The small tree finch and the Galápagos petrel are both bird species. C. On average, the Galápagos petrel weighs 425 grams, while the small tree finch weighs only 13 grams. D. The Galápagos petrel is a bird with an average weight of 425 grams.
Answer: C

762. The student wants to present the study's research methods. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Suzanne K. Birner led a study analyzing rocks on the seafloor to better understand the history of Earth's mantle. Rock samples were collected from two seafloor ridges. The researchers determined the samples' period of formation (the Archean eon) and oxidation level (extremely low). High temperatures in the Archean likely caused the rocks' low oxidation. Birner's team suggests the oxidation of Earth's mantle has remained stable over time, contrary to previous theories. The findings help explain the unique conditions that allowed life to develop on Earth.
A. By studying these ancient rocks, the team aimed to challenge previous theories about changes in Earth's mantle over time.
B. To further analyze the origins of Earth's unique conditions, researchers focused on rocks from the Archean eon, when Earth's temperatures were extremely high.
C. Birner's team analyzed the age and oxidation levels of rock samples collected from two seafloor ridges.
D. Birner led a study to better understand the history of Earth's mantle and explain the conditions that allowed life to develop.
Answer: C

887. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Some social scientists argue that while a belief in the importance of individual autonomy is key to democracy, the public's understanding of economics is also central to its subsequent comprehension of a state's politics, and if an electorate is to function, economic issues cannot remain the domain only of experts. Economics is too ______ to leave to economists alone. A. accessible B. respectable C. complex D. critical
Answer: D

892. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Brown Bears in Katmai National Park, Alaska

Bear identification number Sex Age (years) Approximate weight (pounds)

173

female 10

400

122

male

3

200

117

female

6

325

103

male

4

275

Scientists collected information about brown bears in Katmai National Park in Alaska. This information included each bear's sex, age, and approximate weight. The bear with the greatest approximate weight shown in the table was the bear with identification number ______

A. 173.

B. 117.

C. 103.

D. 122.

Answer: A

899. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Though best known as a novelist, in part due to the success of her 2020 horror novel Mexican Gothic, Silvia Moreno-Garcia started her career as a prolific short story writer. The list of more than 75 short ______ she published before Mexican Gothic includes works like "Ahuizotl" (2015) and "Water" (2007). A. stories, that B. stories that C. stories, which D. stories--that
Answer: B

902. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? During a 2022 expedition led by research zoologist Andrea Quattrini, scientists discovered a new species of black coral off the coast of Puerto Rico. Like other black corals, the newly discovered species, which they named Aphanipathes puertoricoensis, has coiled branching structures that ______ it survive in the deep sea. A. has helped B. helps C. help D. helping
Answer: C

906. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Giant dust plumes from the Sahara Desert that blow across the Atlantic Ocean can have complex and opposing effects on tropical cyclones. On one hand, the dust can enhance the formation of ice clouds in the cyclone's core, increasing precipitation. ______ the dust can lower sea surface temperatures around the cyclone's core, weakening the storm. A. Previously, B. On the other hand, C. In other words, D. For example,
Answer: B

1037. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? Ruth Asawa was an accomplished artist who worked in many art forms, including her unique tied-wire sculptures, but she was dedicated to more than the creation of art. Asawa also wanted to bring art to children in her hometown of San Francisco, California. To that end, in 1968 she cofounded the Alvarado School Arts Workshop, which brought works of art and artists into public schools, and in 1982 she helped found a San Francisco public arts high school, which was later named after her. A. Asawa's unique sculptures were appreciated more by local art communities than they were nationwide. B. Asawa inspired many other artists to share their work with students in public schools. C. Asawa's interest in art education prompted her to create art programs for students in San Francisco. D. Asawa left a promising career as a sculptor to work as an art teacher in San Francisco schools.
Answer: C

1040. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Bird Species by Average Mass

Common name Average mass (kg) Capable of flight?

Lesser rhea

19.6

No

Dalmatian pelican

11.5

Yes

Andean condor

11.3

Yes

Northern cassowary

44.0

No

Most bird species that are capable of flight weigh less than a kilogram (kg), which is not surprising considering the burden that extra body weight puts on a flying animal. But not all flying birds are so light, as we can see most clearly in the example of the ______

A. northern cassowary, which has an average mass of 44.0 kg.

B. Andean condor, which has an average mass below 10 kg.

C. northern cassowary, which has a higher average mass than the lesser rhea.

D. Dalmatian pelican, which has an average mass of 11.5 kg.

Answer: D

1046. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Writing in hieroglyphs, ancient Egyptians recorded measurements using units such as the remen, a unit of ______ and the heqat, a unit of volume. The remen, for instance, is written as a hieroglyph that looks like a bird's leg with a long, clawed foot. A. area, the djeba; a unit of length, B. area the djeba, a unit of length C. area; the djeba; a unit of length; D. area; the djeba, a unit of length;
Answer: D

1050. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Jane Austen's classic 1813 novel about a young woman named Elizabeth Bennet has a title that is instantly recognizable to many readers: Pride and Prejudice. Austen's novel originally had a different ______ while writing and editing, Austen had planned to call the novel First Impressions.

A. title, though; B. title, though, C. title; though D. title, though
Answer: A
1055. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Though the musical groups Intocable and Banda el Recodo are often categorized under the catchall "regional Mexican music" label, they each adhere to distinct musical traditions. The former works within the norteño tradition, which originated in late nineteenth-century northern Mexico. The latter, ______ follows the banda tradition, with roots in mid-nineteenth-century southern and central Mexico. A. in other words, B. as a result, C. to this end, D. on the other hand,
Answer: D
1177. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The National Heritage Fellowship was created to honor exceptional folk and traditional artists in the United States. In 2004, the fellowship was given to the Irish American accordionist Joe Derrane to ______ his lifetime contributions to the arts. A. choose B. discover C. investigate D. celebrate
Answer: D
1178. As used in the text, what does the word "constantly" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from Willa Cather's 1912 novel Alexander's Bridge.
For the next few days Alexander was very busy. He took a desk in the office of a [Scottish] engineering firm on Henrietta Street, and was at work almost constantly. He avoided the clubs and usually dined alone at his hotel. A. Hurriedly B. Enough C. Nonstop D. Anxiously
Answer: C
1179. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The inventories of consonant sounds among the Polynesian languages of the Pacific tend toward the ______: Tongan in the South Pacific has a total of twelve consonants, and `lelo Hawai`i, the language of the Native Hawaiian people, has four fewer, while the global median per language is over twenty-two. A. minimal B. replicable C. melodic D. static
Answer: A
1180. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? In Puerto Rico, some farmers and other business owners have invited agritourism as a means of ______ rural economies. Chocolate-loving tourists can now graft cacao varieties at Hacienda Jeanmarie Chocolat or attend a cacao festival at Hacienda Buena Vista--activity offerings that create jobs beyond traditional farming and bring in more tourism dollars to the local communities. A. fortifying B. surveying C. challenging D. reconciling
Answer: A
1181. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Biologist Bryson Voirin and colleagues have employed hat-like monitors to ______ long-standing misconceptions about the activity patterns of sloths. It was once widely believed that the pale-throated three-toed sloth and other sloths sleep all day. Data from the monitors reveal that in the wild sloths sleep about nine hours a day. A. analyze B. codify C. dispel D. perpetuate
Answer: C
1182. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? In the US, the Lanham Act allows companies to own trademarks, which are words or images that represent specific products. "Q-tips," for example, refers to products made specifically by Unilever, the company that owns the trademark. However, the Lanham Act also allows a trademark to be taken away if it ceases to be specific. For example, "zipper" was once a trademark for a particular brand of clothing fastener. Over time, though, people started using "zipper" to refer to many different brands. Because the word had become generic, a court decided that it could no longer be owned as a trademark. A. It adds to the text's description of products made by Unilever. B. It completes the text's comparison of trademark laws in the US to laws in other countries. C. It concludes the text's argument about how the Lanham Act can be improved. D. It begins the text's discussion of the fact that trademarks can be taken away.
Answer: D
1183. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? Known for the albums Quiet Nights and Sketches of Spain, jazz trumpeter Miles Davis collaborated several times with pianist Gil Evans. Their 1958 adaptation of George Gershwin's opera Porgy and Bess bears little resemblance to the 1935 original. Davis and Evans felt no desire to please listeners expecting an exact duplication of the opera. They omitted parts, such as the aria "I Got Plenty of Nuthin'," and sometimes made only brief gestures toward Gershwin's melodies. But Davis and Evans's willingness to recompose Gershwin's work led to one of the most enduring albums in Davis's catalog. A. It shows why two musicians benefited from ignoring certain conventions. B. It explains how one musician's work influenced another's. C. It describes an attitude that influenced the artistic decisions of two musicians. D. It establishes a relationship between two musicians.
Answer: C
1184. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? In 2015 Floriana Lai and colleagues published a study concluding that ocean acidification has a strong effect on the behavior of Gasterosteus aculeatus, a species of fish. However, Lai and colleagues' study relied on a mean sample size of only 12 fish. In a 2022 review of various scientists' conclusions about the impacts of ocean acidification on fish behavior, Jeff C. Clements and colleagues caution that relying on such a relatively small sample size can increase the potential for biased analysis. Such analysis, in turn, can contribute to reports of exaggerated effects. A. It summarizes a shift in scientists' understanding of how Gasterosteus aculeatus has responded to ocean acidification. B. It elaborates on a potential consequence of Lai and colleagues' reliance on a relatively small sample size. C. It emphasizes the magnitude of the effect reported by Lai and colleagues of ocean acidification on Gasterosteus aculeatus. D. It counters the objection of Clements and colleagues to studies that rely on relatively small sample sizes.
Answer: B
1185. Based on the text, which statement is true of the speaker and her friend? The following text is from Anne Spencer's 1922 poem "Translation."
We trekked into a far country, My friend and I. Our deeper content was never spoken, But each knew all the other said. He told me how calm his soul was laid By the lack of anvil and strife. "The wooing kestrel," I said, "mutes his mating-note To please the harmony of this sweet silence."
A. They understand one another's feelings without having to explicitly discuss them. B. They think nature is much less interesting than being in a dynamic city. C. They once felt more closely connected to one another than they do now. D. They regard the natural world as a place of both peace and conflict.
Answer: A
1186. Which statement about bison and elk dung samples is best supported by the text? The fecal-steroidal profile of moose is clearly distinct from that of other ungulates, including bison and elk. By contrast, bison dung cannot be distinguished from elk dung based solely on their fecal-steroidal profiles, as both contain similar levels of beta-sitosterol and cholestanone, among other sterols. However, levels of other taxa-specific digestive by-products, such as cholic acid, can be used to help differentiate between bison and elk samples. A. They are distinct from each other with respect to both cholestanone and cholic acid content, but bison and moose samples cannot be distinguished from each other based solely on levels of digestive by-products. B. They are distinct from each other with respect to cholic acid content but cannot otherwise be distinguished from moose samples based solely on levels of digestive by-products. C. They are more distinct with respect to beta-sitosterol content than they are with respect to cholic acid content. D. They are less distinct with respect to their steroidal profiles than they are with respect to some other digestive by-products.
Answer: D
1188. Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the assertion?
Annual Mean Forest Patch Size for Three Land Use Capability Classes in the Chorotega Region, Costa Rica 125 100 75 50 25 0
1960 1979 1986 2000 Year
Class I-IV (suitable for crops) Class VI (severe limitations on use for crops) Class VII (very severe limitations on use for crops)

Mean patch size (hectares)

To understand the extent of deforestation in the Chorotega region of Costa Rica, Juan Pablo Arroyo-Mora and colleagues used historical aerial photography and remote sensing data to track changes in the annual mean size of forest patches across different land use capability classes (categories that indicate possible uses of forest land). Due to the Chorotega region's climate, various types of forested areas were converted to cattle pasture as rising international meat prices drove a cattle ranching boom in the 1960s and 1970s. By 1986, mean forest patch sizes had dropped considerably. In that year, they were between ______ A. 100 and 125 hectares. B. 200 and 250 hectares. C. 0 and 50 hectares. D. 125 and 150 hectares.
Answer: C

1189. Which finding, if true, would most directly weaken the students' conclusion?
Students in a biology class investigated why individual house mice (Mus musculus) can differ from one another in their blood's mature B cell concentration. The students compared wild-type mice and knockout mice, which are mice with specific genes deactivated, when mice of each type were placed in similar naturalistic environments and taken for periodic blood sampling. Finding that knockout mice with the gene Arhgap17 deactivated tended to have lower mature B cell counts than did wild-type mice, the students concluded that differences in mature B cell concentration among house mice in nature are solely attributable to variations in the level of expression of Arhgap17.
A. The mice with Arhgap17 deactivated were identical to the wild-type mice except with regard to mature B cell concentration.
B. The level of expression of Arhgap17 does not appear to affect the functioning of any other genes in house mice.
C. Some wild-type mice were very similar to the knockout mice with regard to mature B cell concentration but showed a wide variety of levels of expression of Arhgap17.
D. A sampling of house mice captured in natural settings shows that individual mice can differ from one another in the level of expression of Arhgap17.
Answer: C

1190. Which statement, if true, would most strongly support the claim in the underlined sentence?
Philosopher Ingrid Robeyns argues for the principle of limitarianism--that there should be a limit on the wealth that a single person can amass. Critics of limitarianism respond that it is unworkable, since it would require a universal and strict individual adherence to a code of ethics as well as worldwide cooperation among governments in areas such as economic policy, both of which are extremely unlikely. But some proponents of limitarianism hold that even if these claims have merit, they do not vitiate limitarianism's value as a moral goal toward which we may be able to make some progress.
A. If one agrees that it is undesirable for a very small percentage of a society's population to have a very large percentage of that society's wealth, then it must therefore be desirable to place an upper limit on the wealth a person can have so that a society's wealth is more evenly distributed.
B. There are reasons why a limited amount of difference in the wealth that people possess should be tolerated if not encouraged--for example, some jobs are more dangerous than others, and those jobs should therefore earn a higher income than others.
C. Successfully practicing limitarianism involves several categories of actions (structural actions, such as reforming institutions to provide a livable minimum wage; fiscal actions, such as implementing a progressive tax on wealth; and ethical actions, such as choosing to give away one's wealth) and none of these actions will suffice alone.
D. Most of our societal ideals are regulative ideals, suggesting results that we ought to aim for even if they cannot be fully realized; for example, just because strategies to reduce poverty can never be completely effective for everyone does not mean it is foolish to attempt to reduce poverty.
Answer: D

1191. Which choice most logically completes the text?
The great blue heron and the small dark heron are long-legged birds that live in wetlands, like the Everglades in Florida. Laura D'Acunto and colleagues wanted to know how these birds choose an area in which to live. They looked at features of the birds' habitats, such as the geographic location of the area and how deep the water is during breeding season. They found that although both great blue herons and small dark herons prefer areas that have standing water for more than 60 days per year, only great blue herons prefer areas with deep water during breeding season, suggesting that ______
A. having features that are highly attractive to one species will likely cause an area to be avoided by the other species.
B. the effect of water depth on an area's appeal to the two species increases with the duration of the presence of standing water, but more strongly for great blue herons than for small dark herons.
C. outside of breeding season, both species show a stronger preference for areas with shallower water.
D. merely having standing water for at least a certain number of days per year will not necessarily make an area equally attractive to both species.
Answer: D

1192. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? According to a 2017 analysis by economist Jacob Lundberg, the US's top tax rate of 48% was lower than the country's Laffer curve peak (76%). To some economists, whether a tax cut ______ the US's tax revenue is dependent on the country's position on the Laffer curve, a theoretical relationship between tax rates and revenues. A. will ultimately raise or lower B. ultimately raising or lowering C. having ultimately raised or lowered D. to ultimately raise or lower
Answer: A

1193. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Under the Electoral College system, all 10 of Missouri's electoral votes are awarded to the US presidential candidate who wins the state's popular ______ in the US Constitution, the Electoral College is a permanent feature of US politics. However, a 2001 article by law professors Akhil and Vikram Amar argues that this system could be changed from within--if states agree to allocate their electoral votes to the winner of the national popular vote. A. vote. Inscribed B. vote inscribed C. vote inscribed, D. vote, inscribed
Answer: A

1195. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Whereas French philosopher Michel de Montaigne's essay "Of Quick or Slow Speech" explores a relatively light ______ his essay "Of Liberty of Conscience" takes on heavier fare. A. subject, while B. subject. While C. subject; D. subject,
Answer: D

1196. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? While artist and director Andy Warhol's set design no doubt influenced the project's reception, it was choreographer Merce Cunningham's application of his unique movement principles--including movement autonomy and chance procedure--to the collaborative dance piece RainForest that defined ______ radically transgressive aesthetic. A. his B. it's C. its D. they're
Answer: C

1197. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Eye color is a trait that can be passed down from parents to children. Parents may pass down the trait of having blue eyes to their children. ______ those children could pass this trait on to their own future biological children. A. Later, B. By contrast, C. For instance, D. Instead,
Answer: A

1198. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Since 1972, the Women's Caucus for Art (WCA) has given Lifetime Achievement Awards to environmental artists like Jo Hanson and installation artists like Judy Chicago for their contributions to the arts. ______ the WCA's efforts to promote gender equity in the arts don't stop there; the organization also provides women with leadership and professional-development opportunities. A. For instance, B. However, C. As a result, D. Specifically,
Answer: B

1199. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Plant species known as metal hyperaccumulators can help remove heavy metal pollutants from soil. Sesbania drummondii, or rattlebush, for instance, can absorb a large quantity of cadmium and store it safely in its roots and shoots. ______ its roots may not reach far enough into the soil and could leave trace amounts of cadmium. A. Moreover, the plant is potentially useful in removing accumulated metals; B. That said, the plant may not always be able to remove all of the pollutant; C. On the contrary, a pollutant such as cadmium can be removed from the soil; D. For this reason, the plant has useful applications in soil quality restoration;
Answer: B

1200. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In the 1974 movie The Scarlet Blade, a character screams. ______ the sound of the scream was not made by the actor pictured on screen. It's the Wilhelm Scream, a sound effect that has been used in over 200 movies. A. Similarly, B. For example, C. However, D. As a result,
Answer: C

1201. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to specify why Frances E. Allen won the A.M. Turing Award? The A.M. Turing Award is a prestigious award given by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). The ACM gives the award for "major contributions of lasting importance to computing." Frances E. Allen won the award in 2006 for seminal contributions to optimizing compiler techniques.
A. Generally, the prestigious A.M. Turing Award is given for "major contributions of lasting importance to computing." B. It was in 2006 that Frances E. Allen won the A.M. Turing Award. C. Frances E. Allen is a winner of the ACM's prestigious A.M. Turing Award. D. For seminal contributions to optimizing compiler techniques, Frances E. Allen won the A.M. Turing Award.
Answer: D

1203. The student wants to compare the durations of the two sailors' journeys. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Karen Leibovici is a French sailor. Benefic is a sailboat. Leibovici sailed Benefic on a nonstop, 126-day journey around the world. Lisa Clayton is a British sailor. Spirit of Birmingham is a sailboat. Clayton sailed Spirit of Birmingham on a nonstop, 285-day journey around the world.
A. French sailor Karen Leibovici sailed Benefic around the world in 126 days.
B. Clayton's 285-day journey around the world took longer than Leibovici's 126-day journey.
C. Clayton's journey took place aboard Spirit of Birmingham, while Leibovici sailed on Benefic.
D. Both Clayton and Leibovici embarked on sailing journeys around the world.
Answer: B

1336. Which choice best describes data from the table that support the economists' claim?

Unit Cost in Dollars of Issuing US Coins by Denomination, 2020-2023

Year One-cent Five-cent Ten-cent Quarter-dollar

2020 0.0176 0.0742 0.0373

0.0862

2021 0.0210 0.0852 0.0439

0.0963

2022 0.0272 0.1041 0.0503

0.1111

2023 0.0307 0.1154 0.0530

0.1163

Because the face value of Denmark's kroner coin exceeds the unit cost of issuing it, Denmark's government makes a profit, known as seigniorage, from issuing such coins. Revenue from seigniorage can be used to support parks and other government-funded amenities. Some countries, such as Sweden, have chosen to cease issuing some coins because the cost of issuing the coins exceeded their value, creating negative seigniorage. Some US economists make the case that taking a similar approach to the five-cent coin (worth 0.05 dollars) could increase the total seigniorage obtained through issuing all US coins.

A. In each year from 2020 to 2023, the unit cost of issuing a five-cent coin was greater than the unit cost of issuing a one-cent coin.

B. The unit cost of issuing a five-cent coin rose more between 2022 and 2023 than the unit cost of issuing a ten-cent coin rose in that same period.

C. From 2020 to 2023, the unit cost of issuing a five-cent coin ranged from more than 0.07 dollars to more than 0.11 dollars.

D. In 2023, the unit cost of issuing a five-cent coin was 0.0530 dollars, greater than the face value of the coin.

Answer: C

1345. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Many poetry anthologies include only a single poem from each poet, but Heid E. Erdrich's New Poets of Native Nations includes generous selections from each poet. ______ Erdrich includes multiple poems from dg nanouk okpik and Jennifer Elise Foerster. This allows readers to engage with a wide range of each poet's work. A. However, B. Next, C. In addition, D. For example,
Answer: D

1471. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Smart watches and other small electronic devices tend to contain batteries that can't be easily ______ and swapped for new ones. Environmental policy researcher Jessika Richter warns that because the batteries can't be taken out once they stop working, these devices have shortened life spans and quickly become waste. A. prevented B. imagined C. assembled D. removed
Answer: D

1472. As used in the text, what does the word "produce" most nearly mean? The following text is from Oscar Wilde's 1893 play Lady Windermere's Fan.
MRS. ERLYNNE: I am going to live abroad again. The English climate doesn't suit me. My--heart is affected here, and that I don't like. I prefer living in the south. London is too full of fogs and--and serious people, Lord Windermere. Whether the fogs produce the serious people or whether the serious people produce the fogs, I don't know, but the whole thing rather gets on my nerves. A. Bring about B. Bind C. Make available D. Fancy
Answer: A

1473. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Drivers who strongly believe that the toll they must pay to use the Teodoro Moscoso Bridge, which spans the San José Lagoon in Puerto Rico, is currently too high are unlikely to be open to a proposal to increase the toll. Advocates for a higher toll are likely to have more success if they instead direct their arguments toward a more ______ segment of the population. A. eminent B. persuadable C. knowledgeable D. frugal
Answer: B

1474. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? To prevent excessive microbial growth in the closed habitat of the International Space Station, relative humidity is carefully maintained. Nonetheless, Penicillium chrysogenum and other fungi, which have the potential to damage spacecraft materials, can ______ when routine crew-member activities (e.g., showering) produce localized humidity conditions that exceed the specified maximum for the station overall. A. abate B. recalibrate C. proliferate D. rehabilitate
Answer: C

1475. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Tikal, the famed Maya city located in the lowlands of northern Guatemala, was likely ______ of achievements attained in the lesser-known polities of the Mirador Basin. As Morales-Aguilar et al. have shown, developments at those earlier Mirador sites (e.g., the ten astronomically aligned complexes at Nakbe) were a historical precondition for the sophistication exhibited by the architects of later cities. A. a replica B. a beneficiary C. an archetype D. an antithesis
Answer: B

1476. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? Seigniorage is the difference between the face value of a coin and the unit cost of producing it. Positive seigniorage results in revenue for the issuing government, and that revenue can be used to support education and other government-funded services. However, some coins cost more to produce than their value. While this has led some countries, including Finland, to cease manufacturing certain coins, another approach is to alter the composition of some coins so that they are made with relatively inexpensive metals. A. It details the rationale behind a particular economic decision made by Finland. B. It presents additional information to supplement a definition presented earlier in the text. C. It summarizes a method that the government of Finland uses to fund education. D. It indicates potential solutions to a problem discussed earlier in the text.
Answer: D

1478. Which choice best states the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
Vertical gene transfer involves the transmission of genetic material from a parent to offspring; horizontal gene transfer, on the other hand, involves the exchange of genetic material between organisms not in a parent-offspring relationship. While horizontal gene transfer is common among prokaryotes--single-celled organisms such as the bacteria Carnobacterium viridans and Hafnia alvei--it has rarely been observed among eukaryotes (typically multicellular organisms). However, new studies suggest that horizontal gene transfer is more common in eukaryotes than originally thought.
A. It implies that a common perception of horizontal gene transfer may be inaccurate.
B. It compares the frequencies with which horizontal gene transfer has been detected in two categories of organisms.
C. It indicates a distinction between horizontal gene transfer and vertical gene transfer.

D. It argues that a particular direction of research concerning horizontal gene transfer is likely to be fruitless. Answer: A

1480. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? Known for the albums Someday My Prince Will Come and Kind of Blue, jazz trumpeter Miles Davis collaborated several times with pianist Gil Evans. Their 1958 adaptation of George Gershwin's opera Porgy and Bess bears little resemblance to the 1935 original. Davis and Evans felt no desire to please listeners expecting an exact duplication of the opera. They omitted parts, such as the aria "I Got Plenty of Nuthin'," and sometimes made only brief gestures toward Gershwin's melodies. But Davis and Evans's willingness to recompose Gershwin's work led to one of the most enduring albums in Davis's catalog. A. Davis and Evans's adaptation of Porgy and Bess received a better critical reception than the work on which it was based. B. Davis's creative efforts became more experimental when he collaborated with Evans. C. Audiences for jazz music tend to prefer novelty over convention. D. Davis and Evans's confidence in revising Gershwin's opera led to the creation of one of Davis's most notable recordings.
Answer: D

1482. Which quotation from "May-Day" most effectively illustrates the claim? "May-Day" is an 1867 poem by Ralph Waldo Emerson. In the poem, the speaker describes the sounds of nature: ______ A. "The million-handed sculptor moulds / Quaintest bud and blossom folds, / The million-handed painter pours / Opal hues and purple dye." B. "Firm-braced I sought my ancient woods, / Struggling through the drifted roads; / The whited desert knew me not, / Snow-ridges masked each darling spot." C. "The sparrow meek, prophetic-eyed, / Her nest beside the snow-drift weaves, / Secure the [tree] yet will hide / Her callow brood in mantling leaves." D. "What was that I heard? / Harp of the wind, or song of bird, / Or vagrant booming of the air, / Voice of a meteor lost in day?"
Answer: D

1483. Which choice best describes data from the table that support Pötzelsberger and colleagues' conclusion?

Numbers of the 23 Non-native Tree Species Reported and the Insect and Fungus Threats to
Them

Country Trees Fungi Insects

Bulgaria

9 14 16

Great Britain 18 290 120

Slovakia

15 28 53

Elisabeth Pötzelsberger and colleagues gathered data on 23 non-native tree species grown in Europe. They analyzed reports from Slovakia, Great Britain, and Bulgaria about the number of these species grown in those countries as well as the numbers of insect and fungus species that damage those trees. The researchers concluded that only one of the three countries had a greater number of damaging fungus species than damaging insect species.

A. Great Britain reported 290 damaging fungus species and 120 damaging insect species, while both Slovakia and Bulgaria reported a greater number of damaging insect species than fungus species.

B. Bulgaria reported 16 damaging insect species but only 14 damaging fungus species.

C. Slovakia and Bulgaria both reported fewer damaging fungus species than damaging insect species, whereas Great Britain reported 120 fungus species and only 18 insect species.

D. Great Britain reported 290 damaging fungus species, which is more than either Slovakia or Bulgaria reported.

Answer: A

1484. Which statement, if true, would most directly undermine the claim in the underlined sentence?
The creole language known as Hawaiian Pidgin is primarily an amalgam of English and `lelo Hawai`i (the language of the Native Hawaiian people) with further contributions from Okinawan and Spanish, among other East Asian and Romance languages. Hawaiian Pidgin grammar is distinguished by stative structures in which verbs modify subjects and serve a descriptive function comparable to that of adjectives, as in the statement "nice da stew" (nice the stew). Here, "nice" functions as a verb whose subject is "da stew," such that the statement translates to "the stew is nice." These structures suggest the influence of Okinawan and other East Asian languages that also abound in stative structures in which verbs assume a descriptive function.
A. Verbs capable of modifying subjects by themselves are absent from most English dialects, which instead use copular verbs--forms of "to be" (the sky is cloudy) or other verbs that help express a state of existence (the sky looks cloudy)--to link subjects to the adjectives that modify them.
B. In Hawaiian Pidgin, a stative structure in which the verb precedes its subject is used for emphasis, while a structure in which the verb follows the subject (da stew nice) appears in unemphatic statements, and this sequence of verb and subject corresponds to that of stative structures in Okinawan and other East Asian languages.
C. Stative structures in `lelo Hawai`i often include an article equivalent to "the" in English, and their syntax corresponds to that of Hawaiian Pidgin stative structures, while Okinawan and other East Asian languages lack articles altogether.
D. African American Vernacular English (AAVE) is one of the few US-based dialects of English with stative structures in which verbs modify subjects by themselves, but the syntax of those structures differs from that of Hawaiian Pidgin stative structures.
Answer: C

1485. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Humans are overwhelmingly more likely to be right-handed than left-handed. Among studies of nonhuman primates, Lesley J. Rogers and Gisela Kaplan's 1995 study of wild orangutans did not report a tendency toward right-handedness, while S.G. Lutz-Maki and P.F. MacNeilage's 1991 study of captive chimpanzees did. But the latter study involved only 14 individuals, and according to a meta-analysis of primate-handedness studies, from a statistical standpoint, a study needs to examine a population of at least 176 individuals to justifiably claim that the group exhibits handedness at the population level, suggesting that ______
A. the apparent difference between the two studies' results may be partly attributable to the 1991 study using a different standard to determine handedness than the 1995 study did.
B. any right-handedness exhibited by captive chimpanzees might be an effect of extended contact with humans.
C. the population size in the study that did not report right-handedness in orangutans is too small to justify that conclusion.
D. the population size in the study that reported right-handedness in chimpanzees is too small to justify that conclusion.
Answer: D

1486. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The exhibit Sacred Havens: A Quiet Space of Gardens debuted at San Francisco International Airport in February 2002 and featured a curated collection of ______ a bit more visual interest to the hustle and bustle of the terminals. A. photography, adding B. photography: adding C. photography. Thus adding D. photography, it added
Answer: A

1488. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? One of the African American quiltmakers from the famed community of Gee's Bend, ______ A. the 1960s was when Beatrice Pettway crafted a quilt called Work-Clothes Quilt that was acquired by a Kentucky art museum. B. Beatrice Pettway crafted a quilt in the 1960s called Work-Clothes Quilt that was acquired by a Kentucky art museum. C. a quilt called Work-Clothes Quilt was crafted by Beatrice Pettway in the 1960s and acquired by a Kentucky art museum. D. a Kentucky art museum acquired a quilt called Work-Clothes Quilt that was crafted by Beatrice Pettway in the 1960s.
Answer: B

1489. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The classical music piece "Teen Murti" was written by Indian American composer Reena Esmail. This composition, combining elements of Western classical music with Raag Malkauns, a melodic framework used in Hindustani classical music to evoke a dark mood, ______ Esmail's cross-cultural approach as a composer. A. exemplifies B. exemplifying C. having exemplified D. which exemplifies
Answer: A

1490. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? A region of the Soviet Union encompassing the present-day city of Elista, Russia, the Kalmyk-speaking Kalmyk Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic was in fact only nominally autonomous. President Mikhail Gorbachev's reforms, by helping the Kalmyk Republic and other Soviet republics established along ethnolinguistic lines assert their prerogatives, ______ to the Soviet Union's breakup. A. which contributed B. contributed C. having contributed D. contributing
Answer: B

1491. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In a 2024 study, researchers measuring the biodiversity of trees in Amsterdam first counted how many trees there were in different areas of the city. They found that administrative unit GK13 had 5,179 trees. ______ administrative unit GM14 had only 12 trees. A. Similarly, B. In contrast, C. Specifically, D. For this reason,
Answer: B

1492. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Ecologists, such as Michelle Evans-White, use the trophic pyramid to illustrate the transfer of energy via food in an ecosystem. At the pyramid's base are primary producers, like algae, that provide food to herbivores, like shrimp, at the second trophic level; these animals, ______ provide food to omnivores and carnivores, like seals, at the third level; and so on, up the food chain. A. nevertheless, B. for instance, C. in turn, D. alternatively,
Answer: C

1493. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In 1997 the Advanced Composition Explorer satellite, which studies solar wind and cosmic rays, maintained an orbit at the Sun-Earth L1 Lagrange point--a position directly between Earth and the Sun. ______ the gravitational forces of the Sun and Earth reach an equilibrium found in very few other locations, allowing spacecraft such as the Advanced Composition Explorer to remain in the same position relative to Earth as they orbit the Sun. A. Regardless, B. There, C. For example, D. Admittedly,
Answer: B

1494. The student wants to place the finding of Slotte's team's study in the context of the 2023 review. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The growth-survival paradigm (GSP) posits that faster-growing fish larvae will have higher rates of survival to maturity than will slower-growing larvae. Aril Slotte et al. (2019) tested the GSP's applicability to cohorts of Atlantic herring (Clupea harengus). Finding: The survival rate of slower-growing C. harengus larvae was significantly higher than that of relatively fast-growing C. harengus larvae. Dominique Robert et al. (2023) reviewed 153 studies of the GSP conducted between 1971 and 2022, including Slotte's team's study. Robert et al.: "The GSP was supported in the majority of cases," but a "non-negligible proportion of reviewed studies demonstrated the occurrence of selection [favoring] slow-growing individuals in the field, a possibility generally disregarded in the...GSP."
A. Demonstrating that slower-growing larvae had a survival advantage over faster-growing larvae, Slotte's team's finding regarding C. harengus was consistent with those of the majority of studies included in the review.
B. Presenting evidence of differing survival rates among C. harengus larvae, Slotte's team's study reinforces the review's contention that the GSP's applicability to slower-growing larvae tends to be overlooked.
C. Reporting survival outcomes among C. harengus larvae that contradict the GSP's predictions, Slotte's team's study is one of several in the review that highlight the paradigm's limitations.
D. Suggesting the absence of a relationship between growth rates and survival outcomes, Slotte's team's study of C. harengus larvae is among those in the review that undermine the GSP.
Answer: C

1497. The student wants to emphasize a similarity between Marianne Moore and Edith Wharton. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
A copyright prevents a book's contents from being reproduced (published) without permission from the copyright holder. When a book's copyright expires, the book enters the public domain and can be legally reproduced by anyone. Observations is a poetry collection by Marianne Moore. It entered the public domain in 2020. The Mother's Recompense is a novel by Edith Wharton. It entered the public domain in 2021.
A. Both Observations and The Mother's Recompense are in the public domain; however, one is a poetry collection and the other a novel.
B. Marianne Moore and Edith Wharton are two authors whose works recently entered the public domain.
C. Observations, a poetry collection by Marianne Moore, entered the public domain in 2020, unlike Edith Wharton's novel The Mother's Recompense.
D. The year was 2021, and the copyright to Edith Wharton's The Mother's Recompense had finally expired.
Answer: B

1633. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The exhibit Go Hawai`i: Airline Posters debuted at San Francisco International Airport in January 2004 and featured a curated collection of ______ a bit more visual interest to the hustle and bustle of the terminals. A. aviation-related art: adding B. aviation-related art, it added C. aviation-related art. Thus adding D. aviation-related art, adding
Answer: D

1638. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In popular song culture since at least the Middle Ages, contrafacta--compositions featuring original lyrics set to existing song structures--have been frequent tools for promoting religious and political causes. ______ parodic songs like "Spam" by "Weird Al" Yankovic (a contrafactum of R.E.M.'s 1989 hit "Stand") demonstrate the parallel yet equally potent role that humor and satire have played in the contrafactum tradition. A. By contrast, B. For example, C. Specifically, D. Fittingly,
Answer: A

1765. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Hawaii's literature is often said to have ______ the traditional stories of the Native Hawaiian people. From its origin in those stories, Hawaii's unique literary identity has been further developed and shaped by writers such as Anwei Skinsnes Law and Gary Pak. A. asked for B. paid for C. warned against D. begun with
Answer: D

1767. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Fossil records have allowed us to identify species like the western bison, an animal found throughout the area from Alaska to Minnesota before it became extinct around 3000 BCE. Current figures for the number of extinct species from this period, however, are likely to be underestimates, as most extinct animals are thought to be ______: many scientists believe there are hundreds of species from this time that we have not discovered. A. applicable B. controversial C. unknown D. interconnected
Answer: C

1768. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The tendency to group authors together into distinct literary movements often encourages literary scholars to overlook subtleties in an author's style. Those studying the works of Henry David Thoreau, for instance, may inadvertently ______ nuances in his work by focusing only on the most discernible ways in which his style corresponds to transcendentalism. A. admire B. underscore C. disregard D. replicate
Answer: C

1770. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
Mexican textile artist Victoria Villasana weaves stories of triumph, using her unique method of applying colorful yarn to photographs of people. In some works, Villasana focuses on celebrating cultural icons who are people of color, as she does in her depiction of artist Frida Kahlo. However, in other works, Villasana honors ordinary people, as she does in her captivating portrayal of a street musician with a guitar. Villasana sees both of these approaches as ways of depicting the power and interconnectedness of all people.
A. It provides details about Villasana's artworks, discusses specific examples of her work, and relates them to one of her artistic goals.
B. It introduces Villasana's cultural background, describes how this background influences her art, and then outlines some of her ideas for future projects.
C. It explains how yarn has historically been used in art, details how Villasana uses yarn in her artworks, and then comments on the popularity of her work.
D. It compares Villasana to other contemporary artists, indicates how two of her works are similar, and then emphasizes Villasana's enthusiasm for artistic collaboration.
Answer: A

1771. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
Ethicist Ingrid Robeyns views the use of tax havens (territories such as Switzerland with low tax rates for investors who reside outside those territories) as a means of tax avoidance that, though legally permissible, may not be morally legitimate if it is used by investors to sidestep payment toward government upkeep. Economist Gabriel Zucman finds that 8% of worldwide household wealth is held in tax havens. Zucman also finds that use of tax havens differs between countries--they are rarely used by investors living in South Korea, while many investors who utilize them reside in Argentina or Venezuela.
A. It describes an argument made by one scholar regarding economic policy, then uses the research of a second scholar to point out flaws in that argument.
B. It makes a claim about what constitutes profitable investment based on the research of one scholar, then uses a second scholar's findings to support that claim.
C. It recounts how a scholar came to hold that a particular economic behavior is morally indefensible, then details the results of a study by a second scholar that lend credence to that position.
D. It offers one scholar's opinion of an economic mechanism, then presents a second scholar's findings concerning the prevalence of that mechanism's use.
Answer: D

1773. Which statement about bird population responses to restoration activities in the Colorado River Delta is best supported by the text?
Agricultural development in the Colorado River Delta has led to habitat degradation that has been detrimental to native birds. Monitoring by Eduardo González-Sargas et al. of bird population responses to recent efforts by the Mexican and US governments to revitalize the Delta showed gains overall, though trends varied at the species level. For instance, many populations of native forest specialists, including Gila woodpeckers, showed signs of rebounding, while those of habitat generalists not native to the region, such as Eurasian collared doves, declined--trends that, though divergent, are indicative of habitat recovery.
A. The fact that populations of some species have been adversely affected by restoration activities doesn't necessarily suggest that those activities have been unsuccessful.
B. The causes of the observed divergent species-specific responses to restoration activities likely require further study to account for.
C. Though the conservationists managing habitat restoration activities in the Colorado River Delta didn't intend to target populations of Gila woodpeckers and Eurasian collared doves, the outcomes for those species are nevertheless encouraging.
D. Though trends in the overall bird population in response to restoration activities were initially promising, some declines observed at the species level illustrate that further adjustments to restoration plans may be required.
Answer: A

1774. Which quotation from Lady Windermere's Fan most effectively illustrates the claim? Lady Windermere's Fan is a play by Oscar Wilde that was first performed in 1892. In the play, Lady Windermere laments that certain information has been learned too late for it to be useful: ______ A. "Actions are the first tragedy in life, words are the second. Words are perhaps the worst." B. "Oh, what a lesson! and what a pity that in life we only get our lessons when they are of no use to us!" C. "Yes, I'm of age to-day. Quite an important day in my life, isn't it?" D. "You are right--you are terribly right. But where am I to turn?"
Answer: B

1776. Based on the information in the text and the table, the two students most likely disagree about the answer to which question?

Value, Cost, and Seigniorage of US Coins by Denomination, 2023

Total value of units produced (in millions of

Denomination

dollars)

One-cent

41.4

Five-cent

70.8

Ten-cent

266.6

Quarterdollar

568.4

Gross cost (in millions of dollars) 127.4 163.4 141.1
264.4

Seigniorage (in millions of dollars) -86.0 -92.6 125.5
304.0

Seigniorage per $1 issued (dollars) -2.08 -1.31 0.47
0.53

Issuing a kroner coin yields positive seigniorage--the profit generated when the face value of a coin exceeds the unit cost of producing it--for Denmark's government, which in turn can be used to fund such services as education. Some countries, such as Finland, have ceased manufacturing certain coins because their production created negative seigniorage. In an economics class discussing the data in the table, one student argues that in 2023, the one-cent coin was the least financially sensible for the US to produce, while another student argues that the five-cent coin was.

A. If issuing a given coin results in positive seigniorage per dollar but not as much positive seigniorage per dollar as issuing a different coin does, does it make financial sense to continue issuing the first coin?

B. When evaluating the financial implications of issuing a coin, which is more important, the total seigniorage from issuing that coin or the seigniorage per dollar when issuing that coin?

C. If issuing a given coin results in negative seigniorage per dollar issued, can that be changed to positive seigniorage per dollar issued by reducing the cost of issuing the coin?

D. When determining whether it makes financial sense to issue a given coin, which is more important, the total value of the units of that coin produced or the gross cost of issuing that coin?

Answer: B

1777. Which finding, if true, would most directly support Alegado and colleagues' conclusion?
Biologist Rosanna Alegado believes that we might learn how multicellular organisms developed from single-celled ones if we understand why the single-celled organism Salpingoeca rosetta, the oldest living relative of animals, sometimes forms colonies of cells. Alegado and colleagues reviewed data from many studies of how S. rosetta responds when exposed to another single-celled organism, bacteria, including Jongsik Chun's work with Algoriphagus mannitolivorans bacteria and Ingrid Brettar's work with Aquiflexum balticum bacteria. Alegado and colleagues concluded that A. mannitolivorans is more likely than A. balticum to have played a role in the development of multicellular organisms.
A. Both Chun's and Brettar's experiments resulted in the formation of colonies of S. rosetta.
B. Neither Chun's nor Brettar's experiments resulted in the formation of colonies of S. rosetta.
C. Chun's experiment resulted in the formation of colonies of S. rosetta, whereas Brettar's experiment did not.
D. Brettar's experiment resulted in the formation of colonies of S. rosetta, whereas Chun's experiment did not.
Answer: C

1778. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Episodes in which technologies fall into disuse after a period of adoption, as occurred with the rapid decline of bronze tools and weapons beginning circa 1300 BCE, are informative for understanding the factors shaping technological development in ancient societies. However, it can be unclear whether an absence of artifacts signifies a cultural shift or is merely an effect of gaps in the archaeological record. A dataset of gold objects, including earrings and beads, recovered from Bronze and Iron Age sites at Simagre, Karmir Blur, and other places in the Caucasus reveals a steep drop in the total number of gold artifacts beginning around 1500 BCE in some locations. That this drop represents a genuine instance of cultural change is likely, given that ______
A. there is a positive relationship between the number of gold objects found at Caucasus sites and the sites' respective distances from nearby sources of gold, such as gold ore deposits.
B. the proportion of gold objects to other types of objects recovered is significantly higher at Simagre than at Karmir Blur despite the two sites' close proximity.
C. far fewer gold objects dating to earlier than 1500 BCE have been recovered from sites in the Caucasus than have been recovered from comparably old sites outside the region.
D. a much larger number of Caucasus sites dating from after 1500 BCE are represented in the dataset than sites dating from before 1500 BCE are.
Answer: D

1780. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Encaustic is a technique that has been used by artists since at least the fifth century BCE. ______ using heated wax mixed with pigments. For an example of this technique, see Betsy Eby's 2019 work Wishing Well. A. She involves B. These involve C. It involves D. They involve
Answer: C

1781. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The city of Seoul, South Korea, is home to an office of the International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol). However, you won't see Interpol agents chasing international criminals in Seoul. Interpol can help with investigations, but only South Korean authorities ______ permitted to make arrests there. A. were being B. had been C. were D. are
Answer: D

1783. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? An attack by herbivorous mustard aphids, which are among the cuckoopint plant's most common insect predators, ______ to produce proteins that disrupt the aphids' ability to digest food. A. triggering the plant B. will trigger the plant C. the plant triggered D. the plant will be triggered
Answer: B

1784. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In a 2001 article, law professors Akhil and Vikram Amar suggested that the system that awards Florida's 30 electoral votes to the US presidential candidate with the most votes from Florida voters, rather than from all voters, ______ amenable to change--if states were to agree to allocate their electoral votes to the winner of the national popular vote. A. being B. are C. were D. was
Answer: D

1785. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The La Venta archaeological site is located in our home state of Tabasco, Mexico. ______ a 19.8-ton stone statue of a human head was left behind by the ancient Olmec civilization. In the nearby state of Veracruz was another stone statue that weighs 25.3 tons. A. Therefore, B. Similarly, C. Here, D. In other words,
Answer: C

1786. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? One might assume that Germany's Nordsee One offshore wind farm produces the same amount of energy as land-based wind farms of a similar size. ______ because wind speeds over open water are generally higher than those over land, Nordsee One's turbines turn faster and produce more energy than do most land farms' turbines. A. For example, B. Actually, C. Finally, D. Therefore,
Answer: B

1787. The student wants to describe what the band's members wear. Which choice best uses information from the notes to do this? A student has taken these notes:
The Sound of Class is the marching band at Elizabeth City State University (ECSU). Members of the band wear uniforms. The uniforms are blue, gray, and white. A. Members of the Sound of Class wear blue, gray, and white uniforms. B. ECSU's marching band is called the Sound of Class. C. ECSU has a marching band. D. The Sound of Class was founded in the 1930s.
Answer: A

1788. The student wants to emphasize a similarity between the two studies. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
In a 2001 study, Wilby and Brown found that the presence of plant litter had a negative effect on seedling emergence. The study was conducted in a grassland setting in the United Kingdom. In a 2010 study, Clark and Tilman found that the presence of plant litter had a negative effect on seedling emergence. The study was conducted in a grassland setting in the United States.
A. Over the years, researchers have examined the effect of plant litter on seedling emergence.
B. Wilby and Brown (2001) found that plant litter in a grassland setting in the United Kingdom had a negative effect on seedling emergence.
C. In studies by both Wilby and Brown (2001) and Clark and Tilman (2010), the presence of plant litter in a grassland setting was found to have a negative effect on seedling emergence.
D. Wilby and Brown conducted a study in the United Kingdom, whereas Clark and Tilman's study was conducted in the United States.
Answer: C

1789. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to make and support a generalization about silent films made before 1930?
Silent films can be valuable historical documents of their time. Ninety percent of silent films made before 1930 are now lost. A film is considered lost when no remaining copies are known to exist. Director Oscar Micheaux's 1927 silent film The House Behind the Cedars is lost. Director Henry MacRae's 1925 silent film Ace of Spades is also lost.

Archives such as the UCLA Film and Television Archive in Los Angeles, California, help preserve some of the remaining films from the 1920s. A. The UCLA Film and Television Archive in Los Angeles, California, is one of many archives helping to preserve some of the surviving silent films from the 1920s. B. The lost silent films The House Behind the Cedars and Ace of Spades were made by different directors. C. The House Behind the Cedars, a film from 1927 by Oscar Micheaux, is now considered lost. D. While some have been preserved in archives, many silent films from before 1930--in fact, ninety percent of them--are lost to history.
Answer: D

1913. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The Yupno people of the remote Finisterre Range of Papua New Guinea do not measure age and have no artificial means (e.g., clocks) of tracking time, but this does not imply that the Yupno are ______ time. As Rafael Núñez and colleagues have recently shown, the Yupno language contains many temporal expressions, such as kalip si ngan, which translates to "a long time ago." A. dependent on B. meticulous about C. preoccupied with D. inattentive to
Answer: D

1926. Which choice most logically completes the text? Scientists recently created a model to predict how shorter winters will affect future mammal population sizes in US national forests. Unfortunately, when the model is applied to large forests, its predictions for large-mammal populations are too high, and when applied to small forests, its predictions for small-mammal populations are too high. Tuskegee National Forest in Alabama is a small forest, covering less than 100,000 acres. If used to evaluate the effect of shorter winters on this forest in ten years, the model would likely therefore ______ A. exaggerate the effect of shorter winters on large mammals. B. reflect factors affecting small mammals other than shorter winters. C. overestimate the actual population sizes of small mammals. D. ignore the predator-prey relationships between large and small mammals.
Answer: C

1936. The student wants to provide an example of a sky island. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The Peloncillo Mountains are a mountain range located in the southwestern United States. The range is one of the dozens of "sky islands" in the southwestern US and northwestern Mexico. A sky island is an isolated mountain range whose environment differs drastically from that of the surrounding lowlands. The US Forest Service (USFS) said, "The mountains are `islands' surrounded by deserts that are `seas.'" The USFS said, "Each Sky Island is a unique ecosystem."
A. In the southwestern US and northwestern Mexico, there are dozens of sky islands: isolated mountain ranges whose environments differ drastically from that of the surrounding lowlands.
B. Sky islands are isolated mountain ranges whose environments differ drastically from that of the surrounding lowlands; as the USFS puts it, "the mountains are `islands' surrounded by deserts that are `seas.'"
C. There are dozens of sky islands in the southwestern US and northwestern Mexico, such as the Peloncillo Mountains.
D. The USFS considers each of the sky islands, whose environments differ drastically from that of the surrounding lowlands, to be a "unique ecosystem."
Answer: C

2060. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? A study by Augusta D. Gaspar and Joana Carneiro Pinto found that a bank's corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts, including environmental and social campaigns, improve its corporate image. When CSR was mentioned in bank marketing strategies, favorability scores assigned by study participants tended to ______ the scores assigned by participants when CSR wasn't mentioned. A. replace B. identify C. exceed D. disturb
Answer: C

2061. As used in the text, what does the word "manifest" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from Virginia Woolf's 1919 novel Night and Day. Katharine is the granddaughter of a celebrated poet.
[Katharine's] descent from [a celebrated poet] was no surprise to her, but matter for satisfaction, until, as the years wore on, certain drawbacks made themselves very manifest. Perhaps it is a little depressing to inherit not lands but an example of intellectual virtue; perhaps the conclusiveness of a great ancestor is a little discouraging to those who run the risk of comparison with him. A. Evident B. Particular C. Anticipated D. Complex
Answer: A

2070. Which choice best describes data in the table that support the city planner's conclusion?

Ranking of Environmental and Sociocultural Benefits of Urban Agriculture (scale of 1 to 25; 1 = highest)

Social or ecological service Project leaders Stakeholders General public

improvement of social cohesion

17

10

9

creation of new forms of recreation

8

2

1

provision of habitat for fauna

13

8

18

contribution to political fulfillment

21

23

24

improvement of physical health

5

4

7

Esther Sanyé-Mengual, Kathrin Specht, and their team surveyed three groups of people in Bologna, Italy--leaders of urban agriculture projects, stakeholders in urban agriculture (e.g., food researchers and urban farming associations), and the general public--to compare their views about the extent to which urban agriculture contributes to 25 social or ecological services that the team identified. The researchers used these ratings to rank the services for each group, with a ranking of 1 indicating that a group perceives that urban agriculture benefits that service the most. Using only the rankings shown in the table, a city planner in Bologna who is promoting a new urban agriculture project concludes that advertisements aimed at project leaders should emphasize the project's benefit to the improvement of physical health.

A. The contribution to political fulfillment was ranked higher for project leaders than was the improvement of physical health.

B. The improvement of physical health was ranked higher for project leaders than it was for stakeholders.

C. The creation of new forms of recreation was ranked lower for project leaders than it was for the general public.

D. The improvement of physical health was ranked higher for project leaders than were the other four services.

Answer: D

2074. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The editors of Home Ground: A Guide to the American Landscape turned to Pamela Frierson, an essayist, to craft the entry for "phoehoe," a term referring to a form of lava with a smooth or ropy surface. For "arroyo," however, the editors chose the nonfiction ______ author of Adios to the Brushlands. A. writer Arturo Longoria B. writer, Arturo Longoria, C. writer Arturo Longoria, D. writer, Arturo Longoria
Answer: C

2214. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? Alvin Pang's prose poem "Other Things" challenges the notion that prose poetry--a hybrid form that blends prose formatting with figures of speech and other traditional poetic devices--ought to be contained within a single page. Jane Monson is among the many poets and scholars who claim that prose poems shouldn't exceed one page, while others argue for greater expansiveness, embracing multipage works. This divide is reflected in anthologies: a large majority of prose poems in such collections are under half a page, though The Penguin Book of the Prose Poem (2018) includes a high proportion of longer works. A. Some scholars and poets have criticized Pang's poem "Other Things" for exceeding the generally accepted length for prose poems. B. The editorial choices of a 2018 anthology are a reflection of the widening acceptance of longer prose poetry. C. As seen in a work by Pang and in the greatly differing approaches taken in anthologies, prose poems vary widely in length. D. The ideal length for prose poems remains a contested subject among scholars and practitioners of the form.
Answer: D

2222. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Enabling the liquid to retain structural integrity yet spread easily, ______ A. ketchup relies on its non-Newtonian properties for its utility as a consumer product. B. a consumer product like ketchup derives its utility from its non-Newtonian properties. C. ketchup is a consumer product whose non-Newtonian properties are essential to its utility. D. the non-Newtonian properties of ketchup are essential to its utility as a consumer product.
Answer: D

2357. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Any effort to raise the toll that drivers must pay to use the Lewis and Clark Bridge, which spans the Ohio River to connect Indiana and Kentucky, should explain why a higher toll is necessary; no amount of justification, however, is likely to persuade some drivers who believe the current toll is ______. A. exorbitant B. contentious C. equivocal D. warranted
Answer: A

2359. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? Postcranial skeletal pneumaticity (PSP) refers to the presence of extensions of an animal's lungs and air sacs inside its bones. These extensions are known as pneumatic diverticula. Vascularity and other identifying characteristics of pneumatic diverticula tend not to fossilize, so paleontologists have relied on studies of living bird species to document these qualities, augmenting their findings from fossil analysis to glean additional insights into the respiratory systems of extinct genera such as Tyrannosaurus, Euhelopus, and other Cretaceous theropods and sauropods that may have also exhibited PSP. A. It presents information about the fossilization of pneumatic diverticula that has led paleontologists to question the applicability of studies of certain living species. B. It accounts for disagreements among paleontologists about how the respiratory systems of certain extinct genera functioned. C. It highlights an issue with fossils that previously led paleontologists to misidentify certain characteristics of pneumatic diverticula. D. It indicates why paleontologists have used another approach in addition to fossil analysis to learn about certain aspects of pneumatic diverticula.
Answer: D

2362. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Millions of Metric Tons of Copper Mined in 1995 and
2020

Country 1995 2020

Indonesia 0.44 0.51

Mexico

0.33 0.73

Peru

0.38 2.15

United States 1.85 1.20

While doing research for a paper about metal exports, a student finds a table indicating how much copper was mined in each of four countries in 1995 and 2020. The student notes that in 1995, Mexico mined ______

A. 0.38 million metric tons of copper.

B. 0.33 million metric tons of copper.

C. 1.85 million metric tons of copper.

D. 0.44 million metric tons of copper.

Answer: B

2363. Which quotation from Peter Pan best supports the claim? Peter Pan is a 1911 novel by J.M. Barrie. In the fantasy novel, Peter is a young boy who can fly. He brings Wendy, John, and Michael to Neverland, the mythical island where he lives. The narrator suggests that activity on the island stops when Peter is away and starts again when he is about to return: ______ A. "The rock was very small now." B. "Wendy and John and Michael stood on tip-toe in the air to get their first sight of the island." C. "Peter was alone on the lagoon." D. "Feeling that Peter was on his way back, the Neverland had again woke into life."
Answer: D

2372. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Though largely eclipsed by her success as a novelist, Jessie Redmon Fauset's contributions as literary editor of The Crisis, a New York City-based periodical whose influence was arguably at its peak during her Harlem Renaissance-era tenure, ______ in recent scholarship that explores Fauset's instrumental role in shaping the magazine's aesthetic and debuting the work of Langston Hughes and other emerging Black writers. A. has been revisited B. have been revisited C. revisited D. having been revisited
Answer: B

2376. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In a 1998 study by Smith et al., the researchers used microhistological fecal analysis to determine the ratio of three plant subtypes (graminoids, forbs, and browse) within the diets of North American ungulates. The researchers did not perform this analysis on all such ungulates, ______ they focused exclusively on pronghorns and wild horses in New Mexico. A. regardless; B. in other words; C. for instance; D. however;
Answer: D

2508. Based on the text, what is the most likely reason Walsh and colleagues chose to avoid the method used in the spinach study?
In a 2024 study, Corrine Walsh and colleagues examined whether the composition of soil microbial communities could affect plants' flavor chemistry. Whereas Baslam et al. (2011) showed that adding specific bacterial or fungal strains to soil can yield increased flavonoid content in spinach crops, Walsh and team applied intact microbial communities gathered from ecologically distinct settings across Colorado, including areas of ponderosa pine forest and irrigated pasture, to mustard plants and evaluated the flavor compounds in the plants' seeds. This ensured that the microbial conditions in their experiment would better reflect the variation and complexity of naturally occurring communities.
A. The composition of microorganisms in the soil in the spinach study may not have been representative of a naturally existing composition.
B. The microbial community in the soil from the spinach study affected plants' nutrition, not their flavor chemistry.
C. The microbial community in the soil from the spinach study likely included similar species to those in wild soils.
D. The diversity of species of microorganisms in the soil from the spinach study was already abnormally high before the researchers added further microorganisms.
Answer: A

2512. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Neuroscientist Artin Arshamian and his team sought to determine what affects a person's perception of an odor as pleasant: is it culture, personal taste, or aspects of human anatomy? The team assessed odor preferences in ten groups of people with different modes of living (urban, agricultural, and hunter-gatherer) including urban dwellers from a large city in Thailand and the Seri people from a small community in Mexico. The team observed that across cultures, people generally rated odors about the same: vanillin, which smells like vanilla, was typically rated more pleasant than galbazine, which smells like peanuts. The team therefore concluded that ______
A. culture likely plays more of a role in a person's perception of how pleasant an odor is than does human anatomy.
B. a person's mode of living likely doesn't have a large influence on that person's perception of whether an odor is pleasant or unpleasant.
C. a person who lives in an urban area is more likely to encounter the odor of vanillin than is a person who lives in a small community.
D. a person who perceives certain odors as pleasant will likely perceive the odors as roughly equal in pleasantness.
Answer: B

2514. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Jesse Treviño's 1976 painting Mis Hermanos was featured in the Smithsonian's 2013 exhibition Our America: The Latino Presence in American Art. The piece ______ chosen for the exhibition by curator E. Carmen Ramos. A. is B. had been C. will be D. is being
Answer: B

2526. The student wants to support Browner's claim about Louis Ballard's compositions. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Louis Ballard was a classical composer and citizen of the Quapaw Tribe. Ballard's composition Desert Trilogy was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in music in 1971. His composition Devil's Promenade incorporates a Seneca cow-horn rattle, a traditional Native instrument. Ethnomusicologist Tara Browner claims that Ballard's compositions rely on elements originating within Native musical traditions.
A. According to Browner, composer Louis Ballard, who wrote Desert Trilogy, relies on elements with origins in Native musical traditions.
B. Classical composer Louis Ballard, who wrote Devil's Promenade, was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in music in 1971.
C. Browner posits that Louis Ballard's compositions rely on elements originating within Native musical traditions; Devil's Promenade affirms this assertion, incorporating a Seneca cow-horn rattle.
D. Browner claims that Louis Ballard's compositions, one of which was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize, rely on elements originating within Native musical traditions.
Answer: C

2800. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
Establishing protected areas (PAs), such as South Luangwa National Park in Zambia, is a common conservation strategy, but because PAs restrict some kinds of economic activity, it's widely thought that they hinder economic development. This perception is driven in part by the fact that economic assessments often don't capture the indirect effects of tourism linked to PAs. But Heng Zhu et al. found that tourism associated with South Luangwa boosts local demand for goods and services in other economic sectors, resulting in, for instance, increased income from livestock production in nearby areas.
A. It introduces a widely held belief about the effect PAs have on the economy, proposes a reason for that belief's prevalence, and then details a study whose findings seemingly conflict with that belief.
B. It states a hypothesis that accounts for why PAs generally negatively impact local economies, outlines how a research team's findings support that hypothesis, and then suggests how a novel methodology led a separate team of researchers to a different conclusion.
C. It explains how PAs typically affect economic development in the regions where they are established, summarizes the findings of several economic studies that support this explanation, and then concedes that a particular PA is an exception to the general trend.
D. It makes a generalization about the difficulty of using PAs to reconcile economic and conservation priorities, demonstrates why most PAs fall short of achieving that goal, and then holds up a particular PA as an example of how that goal can be achieved.
Answer: A

2812. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Topographical prominence is a measure of a mountain's independence from other mountains. Having 9,721 feet of prominence, ______ A. Pico do Ramelau, a peak located in Timor-Leste, is ranked by geographers as the world's 98th most prominent mountain. B. the list of mountains geographers rank as the world's most prominent includes Pico do Ramelau, a peak located in Timor-Leste, at number 98. C. geographers have ranked Pico do Ramelau, a peak in Timor-Leste, as the world's 98th most prominent mountain. D. the ranking given by geographers to Pico do Ramelau, a peak located in Timor-Leste, is 98th most prominent mountain in the world.
Answer: A

2949. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? The following text is adapted from Daniel Defoe's 1704 nonfiction book The Storm.
If I judge right, 'tis the duty of an historian to set everything in its own light, and to convey matter of fact upon its legitimate authority, and no other: I mean thus, (for I would be as explicit as I can) that where a story is vouched to him with sufficient authority, he ought to give the world the special testimonial of its proper voucher, or else he is not just to the story: and where it comes without such sufficient authority, he ought to say so; otherwise he is not just to himself. A. Historians rarely have access to all the information relevant to a particular event, so no single work of history should be taken as definitive. B. The only figures that a historian should quote are those who are widely viewed as credible. C. Historians should clearly indicate the extent to which each of their sources is trustworthy. D. Because historians cannot tell whose memories they should trust, they should avoid relying on eyewitness accounts of events.
Answer: C

2955. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The atomic structure of an element ______ the element's place on the periodic table. A. to determine B. determining C. determines D. having determined
Answer: C

2958. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? On January 11, 1996, the space shuttle Endeavour blasted off into space, commencing Mission ______ eight days and twenty-two hours, the mission ended when the shuttle landed at Kennedy Space Center in Florida. A. STS-72. Lasting B. STS-72, lasting C. STS-72 lasting D. STS-72, it lasted
Answer: A

2965. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Brain imaging research led by neuroscientist Dwaynica Greaves found that actors showed suppressed responses in the left anterior prefrontal cortex (the portion of the brain associated with self-awareness) when their names were called during performances; ______ the actors' responses were normal in nonacting contexts. These findings suggest that when embodying characters, performers may temporarily set aside their personal identities. A. specifically, B. likewise, C. thus, D. conversely,
Answer: D

3098. Which finding, if true, would most directly support Núñez and colleagues' claim?
Rafael Núñez and colleagues studied how members of the Yupno, an Indigenous group in Papua New Guinea, conceptualize time in both spoken language and gestures. The researchers recorded Yupno speakers explaining certain temporal words and phrases, such as jare, a past-oriented expression that translates to "day before yesterday," and coded each speaker's manual gestures. Previous research has found a tendency in many cultures to make temporal distinctions along imagined linear axes: for instance, Hebrew speakers often refer to the right/left axis to describe events in time. Some researchers believe this tendency is universal, but Núñez and colleagues claim this is not the case.
A. Some Yupno grammatical structures used when talking about time are also used in Hebrew.
B. Yupno speakers were observed making temporal gestures both indoors and outdoors, though with greater frequency when indoors.
C. Yupno speakers typically use their left hand to make temporal gestures regardless of whether the gestures are past oriented or future oriented.
D. Future-oriented gestures used by Yupno speakers do not, on average, point in the opposite linear direction of past-oriented gestures.
Answer: D

3105. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The editors of Home Ground: A Guide to the American Landscape turned to Luis Alberto Urrea, a poet, to craft the entry for "atarque," a term referring to a watering hole formed by a natural or artificial dam. For "muskeg," however, the editors chose the ______ author of Of Landscape and Longing. A. essayist Carolyn Servid, B. essayist Carolyn Servid C. essayist, Carolyn Servid, D. essayist, Carolyn Servid
Answer: A

3241. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? A study by Mohamed Alburaki, Jillian Lopez, and colleagues suggests that overall, US honey bee populations exhibit low genetic diversity. Working with a large sample of honey bee specimens collected from most US states, the researchers determined that there are just three maternal evolutionary lineages in the populations: the North Mediterranean lineage, the West Mediterranean lineage, and the African lineage. They found that of the specimens from Delaware, 100% descended from the North Mediterranean lineage--a finding in keeping with that for the lineage in many of the other states studied. A. It indicates that a result described earlier in the sentence reflects a widespread trend. B. It acknowledges that the results of the study discussed in the text are not entirely consistent with the researchers' hypothesis. C. It expands on the claim made earlier in the sentence by providing specific data. D. It summarizes the central conclusions of the study that is discussed in the text.
Answer: A

3245. What does the text most strongly suggest about museomics? Shanlin Liu and colleagues' 2021 investigation, which examined the evolutionary history of the rhinoceros family (Rhinocerotidae), demonstrates the potential held by museomics--the study of hDNA, genomic data from archival specimens housed in collections such as those at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History. Although it is a challenge for evolutionary biologists that past specimen preservation methods often resulted in DNA degradation, emerging advances in DNA extraction and sequencing may soon enable hDNA to reveal a range of evolutionary relationships and patterns. A. It is an approach to the study of evolutionary phenomena that holds much promise for future scientific advances. B. As a result of recent technological breakthroughs, it is no longer a challenging approach for evolutionary biologists to use. C. It can provide researchers access to DNA from mammals, but it requires the latest and most advanced laboratory equipment. D. By expanding the types of DNA samples available to researchers, it is becoming a widely used alternative to traditional genomic methods.
Answer: A

3258. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In 2001, some 391 years after Galileo Galilei and Simon Marius independently discovered Jupiter's four largest moons (Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto), scientists discovered the moon Eurydome in orbit around Jupiter. ______ researchers have discovered eighty moons orbiting Jupiter. A. Rather, B. To date, C. For example, D. In other words,
Answer: B

3399. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? While some biologists cite the biological species concept (Mayr 1942), others adhere to the unified species concept (Queiroz 2007), with at least fourteen other concepts used across the field. Such lack of consensus, however, isn't necessarily cause for alarm. Scholars supporting a pluralist approach--in place of a single, monistic concept--to defining a species ______ that a diversity of species concepts fits their equally diverse applications throughout the discipline. A. is arguing B. argues C. argue D. to argue
Answer: C

3403. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Nineteenth-century Modernista architects championed nature in their designs. Granted, the wavy exterior wall and botanical window dressings of Torre Cortés, a Modernista private home designed by Salvador Valeri i Pupurull, couldn't exactly grow in a forest. ______ one sees natural influences in Valeri i Pupurull's penchant for curves (rather than right angles) and plant- and animal-inspired flourishes. A. Furthermore, B. Similarly, C. Still, D. In other words,
Answer: C

3682. According to the text, what draws divers and scientists to blue holes such as the Far Side Blue Hole and the Taam Ja' Blue Hole? Blue holes, such as the Far Side Blue Hole in the Abaco Islands, are large marine sinkholes. They are typically located in areas where the ocean bedrock is made of soluble material (e.g., gypsum) because rock erosion is crucial to their formation. Because of the preserved fossils they contain, blue holes attract numerous divers and scientists. Currently, the Taam Ja' Blue Hole in Chetumal Bay, Mexico, is the deepest blue hole on record, measured by Joan A. Sánchez-Sánchez and colleagues to be at least 420 meters below sea level. A. A desire to witness the erosion of the rocks in the blue holes B. A hope to observe fossils that are located in the blue holes C. An interest in comparing the depths of the Far Side Blue Hole and the Taam Ja' Blue Hole to the depths of other blue holes D. A commitment to protecting the gypsum and other soluble materials in the blue holes
Answer: B

3688. Which choice most logically completes the text? Betty Smith's 1943 novel A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is regularly described as autobiographical. That characterization is apt--there are many parallels between the experiences of the novel's protagonist, Francie Nolan, and those of Smith--but it should not be taken to mean that every person or event depicted in A Tree Grows in Brooklyn has a real-life analogue. Much of the novel is pure invention, and readers who neglect this fact and instead focus excessively on correspondences between the novel and Smith's life can thus ______ A. misrepresent A Tree Grows in Brooklyn as being more widely read than it actually is. B. overemphasize the extent to which Smith took inspiration from earlier writers. C. refuse to acknowledge that Smith drew on real-world material when writing A Tree Grows in Brooklyn. D. fail to appreciate how much creativity Smith shows in the book.
Answer: D

3689. Which choice most logically completes the text?
British professional soccer team Arsenal Football Club, whose home uniform color is mainly red, won more than half its home matches between 1947 and 2003. This is a higher proportion of home matches than Hull City Association Football Club, whose home uniform color is not red, won during the same period. According to a study by Martin J. Attrill and colleagues, the color red can cause people to respond with fear and hesitation, which the researchers think helps explain Arsenal's success. Nadav Goldschmied and colleagues reanalyzed the published data from this study, however, and found no evidence that red-uniformed teams are more likely than other teams to win, suggesting that Arsenal's red uniforms ______
A. negatively affected the performance of Arsenal's opponents.
B. did not affect the fans' satisfaction with Arsenal's performance.
C. made the Arsenal players more nervous than they would have been if their uniforms had not been red.
D. did not provide Arsenal with any significant advantage.
Answer: D

3694. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? With an average summer temperature of 59.4 degrees Fahrenheit, Stockholm is one European ______ many travelers recommend, especially from June to September. A. city in which, B. city that C. city, that D. city, which
Answer: B

3700. The student wants to identify who wrote the Árya-Siddhánta. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Aryabhata (476-550 CE) was an Indian astronomer and mathematician. He is the author of the Árya-Siddhánta. The Árya-Siddhánta is a text on ancient Hindu astronomy. It is a lost text. It is only known because other writers have mentioned it. A. The Árya-Siddhánta is a text on ancient Hindu astronomy. B. An Indian astronomer and mathematician who lived from 476 to 550 CE wrote a text that is now lost. C. The Árya-Siddhánta was written by Aryabhata, an Indian astronomer and mathematician. D. The Árya-Siddhánta is a lost text.
Answer: C

3834. Which quotation from a publication by a researcher would most effectively support the student's claim? A student is writing an essay on the subject of cultured meat, which is grown in a laboratory and is intended to help reduce the number of livestock harvested for food. The student wants to make the case that cultured meat production may be useful in responding to an expected widespread change in the public's behavior. A. "The flavor of meat from livestock differs across species (from pig to chicken to cow), and is also influenced by farming conditions and the breeds and genders of animals." B. "Consumers tend to believe that using less packaging when selling meat products in stores would have a significant effect on the environment." C. "A growing population that is including significantly more meat in its diet will contribute to an increasing demand for meat products in the 21st century." D. "Researchers who advocate for the development of lab-grown meat claim that it's better than conventional meat because its nutritional content can be adjusted."
Answer: C

3845. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The Beatrice, an offshore wind farm located off the coast of Scotland, produces about 588 megawatts (MW) of electricity per year. ______ England's Hornsea Project One offshore wind farm, which generates the most power of any single offshore farm, produces 1,218 MW of electricity. A. For instance, B. As a result, C. By comparison, D. That is,
Answer: C

3980. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Reported Annual Travel Distances in Four Studies of Migrating Animal Populations

Species

Continent Distance (km) Measurement method

Blue wildebeest Africa

650

RTD

Elk

North America 1,200 GPS

Gray wolf

Asia

7,247 GPS

Caribou

North America 1,250 RTD

Some studies of migrating animals measure how far the animals travel in a year by fitting individuals with GPS tracking collars. Other studies track annual round-trip distance (RTD), which is equal to double the distance separating the two habitats a population migrates between each year. A researcher argues that since GPS records all of an animal's movements, using the GPS method to track a population would result in significantly higher recorded travel distances than using the RTD method would. For example, it's very likely that the distance reported for the ______

A. gray wolf would be greater than 1,200 kilometers if the RTD method had been used.

B. blue wildebeest would be greater than 7,247 kilometers if the GPS method had been used.

C. gray wolf would be less than 7,247 kilometers if the RTD method had been used.

D. blue wildebeest would be less than 650 kilometers if the GPS method had been used.

Answer: C

3985. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The editors of Home Ground: A Guide to the American Landscape turned to Arturo Longoria, a nonfiction writer, to craft the entry for "arroyo," a term referring to the bed of an intermittently dry stream or creek. For "lek," however, the editors chose the ______ author of The Very Rich Hours. A. poet Emily Hiestand B. poet, Emily Hiestand C. poet, Emily Hiestand, D. poet Emily Hiestand,
Answer: D

3995. The student wants to indicate one or more regions where purple loosestrife is causing environmental or economic harm. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
A nonnative species is considered invasive if it causes environmental or economic harm in an ecosystem. Purple loosestrife is a species of wetland plant native to parts of Eurasia. It can also be found in the northern and western US. There, it crowds out native plants and reduces aquatic nutrients. It is considered an invasive species in the US.
A. Purple loosestrife is native to the northern and western US, but elsewhere it causes environmental or economic harm.
B. Purple loosestrife can be found in the northern and western US, where it crowds out native plants and reduces aquatic nutrients.
C. Purple loosestrife is considered invasive because it crowds out native plants and reduces aquatic nutrients, causing environmental harm.
D. Purple loosestrife, a wetland plant native to parts of Eurasia, is considered an invasive species.
Answer: B

4120. As used in the text, what does the word "good" most nearly mean? The following text is from Charles Chesnutt's 1905 novel The Colonel's Dream. Mr. French and Mr. Kirby work together.
Mr. French, the senior partner, who sat opposite Kirby, was an older man--a safe guess would have placed him somewhere in the debatable ground between forty and fifty; of a good height, as could be seen even from the seated figure, the upper part of which was held erect with the unconscious ease which one associates with military training. A. Considerable B. Capable C. Reliable D. Well-behaved
Answer: A

4123. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? Movies based on well-known books are often commercial successes: when the two widely read novels How to Train Your Dragon and Brooklyn were turned into motion pictures, people flocked to theaters to see them. Investigating whether adapting a book into a movie also affects the original book's popularity, researchers collected statistics from online platforms for The Monuments Men and two other books that have been adapted for the screen. They found that the movies' release dates coincided with increased interest in the books. A. It provides specific examples that support the claim made earlier in the sentence. B. It points out that a general rule mentioned earlier in the sentence has some exceptions. C. It sets up a contrast between two artistic forms that is further explored in the next two sentences. D. It states a common belief that is disproved by the research findings detailed in the next two sentences.
Answer: A

4136. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In 2022, Carnegie Hall's digital Timeline of African American Music was ______ input from Maureen Mahon, Michael Veal, and other prominent scholars--to integrate text and music clips, thereby inviting users to experience genres such as ragtime and funk as well as read about them. A. redesigned, with B. redesigned--with C. redesigned with D. redesigned. With
Answer: C

4287. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The Hornbostel-Sachs system classifies musical instruments by how they produce sound. For example, an instrument that is popular in Switzerland called the alphorn produces sound primarily through the vibration of air through the instrument's body. ______ under the Hornbostel-Sachs system, the alphorn is an aerophone. A. Furthermore, B. Thus, C. Instead, D. Similarly,
Answer: B

4411. As used in the text, what does the word "delicate" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from Kenneth Grahame's 1908 novel The Wind in the Willows. The Mole has been found by a friend after getting lost in the woods. It is beginning to snow.
The Mole saw the wood that had been so dreadful to him in quite a changed aspect. Holes, hollows, pools, pitfalls, and other menaces to the wayfarer were vanishing fast, and a gleaming carpet was springing up everywhere, that looked too delicate to be trodden upon by rough feet. A. Considerate B. Deserted C. Fragile D. Accurate
Answer: C

4418. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? The following text is adapted from Matthew Arnold's 1869 nonfiction book Culture and Anarchy.
The Times [a British newspaper], replying to some foreign strictures on the dress, looks, and behaviour of the English abroad, urges that the English ideal is that every one should be free to do and to look just as he likes. But culture indefatigably tries, not to make what each raw person may like, the rule by which he fashions himself; but to draw ever nearer to a sense of what is indeed beautiful, graceful, and becoming, and to get the raw person to like that. A. The English are not as well known for their sense of taste as they ought to be. B. Most people disagree with each other on what is beautiful. C. Culture's duty is to use scientific methods to determine what is beautiful. D. One of the functions of culture is to create a consensus about matters of good taste.
Answer: D

4433. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Researchers in France claim that leopards and brown bears are among the twenty most "charismatic" animals (defined as "attractive, fascinating, or appealing"). To create their top-twenty list, researchers used survey data from Western Europe. European attitudes toward leopards and brown bears might not be shared around the world, ______ A. in other words. B. of course. C. for example. D. in particular.
Answer: B

4572. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Many works of the Greek astronomer Hipparchus (2nd century BCE) are ______ his Commentary, a critique of a popular astronomical poem, is an extant work: it can still be read. A. lost and conversely, B. lost, and conversely C. lost. Conversely, D. lost, conversely,
Answer: C

4579. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Cornelia Konrads is a German sculptor who creates art that seems to be part of its surroundings. Her sculpture entitled red pavilion is built at a pavilion for birdwatching in Taiwan. ______ appearing as a set of red bamboo columns supporting the pavilion, it is cleverly placed into its environment, serving as an example of Konrads's approach. A. Later, B. For instance, C. There, D. However,
Answer: B

4862. Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researcher's claim?
A team of public transportation experts in Detroit is creating a new streetcar stop for the Woodward Avenue Streetcar system that will service a neighborhood in which a stop does not currently exist. To decide where to place the stop, the team is using a survey from ten years ago that asked how far neighborhood residents would be willing to walk to a streetcar stop. The team also looked at studies showing that people's willingness to walk to public transit is influenced by factors like weather and the presence of paved sidewalks and available crosswalks. A researcher has argued that the survey does not accurately reflect the feelings of today's residents of this neighborhood.
A. The number of sidewalks and crosswalks in the neighborhood that the streetcar stop will service has increased substantially in the last ten years.
B. Residents of Detroit are much less likely to use public transit on rainy days than on clear days.
C. There has been a sharp increase in the last ten years in cyclists who use the roads in the neighborhood that the streetcar stop will service.
D. Current users of the Woodward Avenue Streetcar are satisfied with the number of stops along the line.
Answer: A

5008. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Brown Bears in Katmai National Park, Alaska

Bear identification number Sex Age (years) Approximate weight (pounds)

120

female

8

400

184

male

9

800

115

female

4

325

104

female 14

425

Scientists collected information about brown bears in Katmai National Park in Alaska. This information included each bear's sex, age, and approximate weight. The bear with the greatest approximate weight shown in the table was the bear with identification number ______

A. 115.

B. 120.

C. 104.

D. 184.

Answer: D

5156. Which quotation from Life Among the Paiutes most effectively illustrates the claim? Life Among the Paiutes is an 1882 autobiographical narrative by Sarah Winnemucca Hopkins, a Northern Paiute author, educator, and activist. In the work, Winnemucca directly addresses the reader to explain certain customs, writing ______ A. "But how can I describe the scene that followed? Some of you, dear readers, can imagine." B. "We would all go in company to see if the flowers we were named for were yet in bloom, for almost all the girls are named for flowers." C. "During the time my grandfather was away in California, where he [stayed] till after the Mexican war, there was a girl-baby born in our family." D. "Now, my dear reader, there is no word so endearing as the word father, and that is why [my people] call all good people father or mother."
Answer: D

5295. As used in the text, what does the word "breathes" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from the 1895 poem "Ojistoh" by Emily Pauline Johnson, a Kanienkahagen (Mohawk) writer also known as Tekahionwake.
I am Ojistoh, I am she, the wife Of him whose name breathes bravery and life And courage to the tribe who calls him chief. I am Ojistoh, his white star, and he Is land, and lake, and sky--and soul to me. A. Imparts B. Rejects C. Absorbs D. Acquiesces
Answer: A

5313. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? As volcanologists like Tamsin Mather are apt to make clear, not all volcanoes are the same. Lanzarote in Spain, for example, is a fissure vent, a linear volcanic vent through which lava erupts, usually without any explosive activity. Qualibou in Saint Lucia, ______ is a caldera, a large cauldron-like hollow that forms shortly after the emptying of a magma chamber in a volcanic eruption. A. in fact, B. in conclusion, C. in any case, D. in contrast,
Answer: D

5451. Which choice most logically completes the text? In a study of the effects of music tempo (as measured in beats per minute, or bpm) during exercise, participants rode a bicycle for 30 minutes while listening to Beyoncé's "Irreplaceable" (88 bpm) continuously. Researchers anticipated that when participants performed the same activity the following day while listening to Led Zeppelin's "Rock and Roll" (169 bpm), they would ride more quickly. Participants' performance on the second day, however, may have been negatively affected by tiredness from the first day. Thus, ______ A. participants' prior familiarity with the songs may have contributed to differences in performance over the two days. B. the researchers were unable to accurately measure how quickly participants rode on the second day. C. participants demonstrated a preference for one song over the other. D. the results from the second day may lead to an underestimation of the effect of the faster song.
Answer: D

5463. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In the West African country of Burkina Faso, the percentage of the population living in cities rose from 27.5% to 30.6% between 2015 and 2020. ______ urbanization rates climbed across West Africa as a whole, rising 3.2 percentage points in that five-year period. A. In other words, B. For example, C. Eventually, D. Concurrently,
Answer: D

5593. According to the text, where do Huang and colleagues think K. popovi adults stored their eggs? Although seed shrimp and some other arthropods have long been known to actively care for their eggs and offspring, relatively little has been known about this kind of behavior in ancient insects. Now, Diying Huang and colleagues claim that Jurassic fossils from a site in China contain the earliest evidence of insect brood care. The researchers examined fossils of Karataviella popovi, an extinct water insect species, and found thirty adults that appear to have been storing clusters of eggs on one of their left legs. This discovery reveals that insects engaged in brood care much earlier than previously believed. A. On underwater plants B. On two of their right legs C. On one of their left legs D. On fossilized remains of other insects
Answer: C

5611. The student wants to emphasize a difference between the two games. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Robinson Crusoe: Adventures on the Cursed Island is a board game based on the writing of Daniel Defoe. The game features characters and events from Defoe's novel Robinson Crusoe. Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell is a board game based on the writing of Susanna Clarke. The game features characters and events from Clarke's novel Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell.
A. Robinson Crusoe: Adventures on the Cursed Island, a board game based on the writing of Daniel Defoe, features characters and events from the novel Robinson Crusoe.
B. Some board games feature characters and events from works of fiction; for example, Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell is based on Susanna Clarke's novel Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell.
C. Both the game Robinson Crusoe: Adventures on the Cursed Island and the game Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell have themes inspired by works of fiction.
D. The game Robinson Crusoe: Adventures on the Cursed Island is based on a work by Daniel Defoe, while the game Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell is based on a work by Susanna Clarke.
Answer: D

5738. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? A unique habitat at the interface of surface water and groundwater within river corridors, a river's hyporheic zone (HZ) extends beyond its embankments: for a great river like the Brahmaputra, the HZ might reach up to 400 meters from the channel. Because of its inaccessibility, scientists use ______ to measure the HZ--for example, by mapping aquatic organisms found in soil beyond a waterway's banks. A. simulations B. proxies C. auxiliaries D. parameters
Answer: B

5885. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
Based on writing samples collected from participants in previous studies that indicated a link between aging and increased use of present tense verbs (e.g., "goes"), among other linguistic shifts, two researchers investigated whether the writing of acclaimed authors similarly evolves over time. Using a computer algorithm, the researchers analyzed the works of poet Edna St. Vincent Millay, author of Renascence and Other Poems (1917), and nine other English-language authors whose literary output spanned multiple decades.
A. It identifies a pattern seen in one population, introduces an inquiry concerning that pattern's presence in another population, and then details the methodology used to conduct that inquiry.
B. It discusses an observation of a phenomenon, mentions a prediction pertaining to that phenomenon, and then evaluates two researchers' approach to testing that prediction.
C. It provides the context for a certain inference, outlines a procedure intended to strengthen that inference, and then cites evidence produced by that procedure.
D. It summarizes study results, notes a likely implication of those results, and then indicates how a particular technology has been used to confirm that implication.
Answer: A

5896. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Gouache is a technique that has been used by artists since at least the thirty-first century BCE. ______ using opaque watercolors for a matte finish. For an example of this technique, see Sonia Delaunay's 1942 work Rhythm Colour. A. She involves B. These involve C. It involves D. They involve
Answer: C

5903. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Among its thousands of portraits of well-known figures from British history, London's National Portrait Gallery (NPG) includes self-portraits by noteworthy British artists, including one of John Opie. ______ the subjects of most NPG portraits are different from (and more famous than) the artists who painted them. A. Furthermore, Opie's portrait exemplifies the museum's bias in favor of autoportraiture: B. Of course, such portraits are anomalies in the context of the museum's collection: C. However, Opie's portrait is not the only self-portrait of an artist in the museum: D. Consequently, such portraits reinforce the museum's curatorial philosophy:
Answer: B

6050. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In a recent analysis of US newspapers from 1903, researchers applied a contrastive bi-encoder model to cluster articles by content, assigning similar mathematical vectors to articles with related topics and dissimilar vectors to those with unrelated topics. ______ the researchers determined that the largest of these clusters consisted of articles about the Panama Canal Treaty--making it the most widely covered news story of 1903. A. For example, B. That said, C. In other words, D. Ultimately,
Answer: D

Section: Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing, Difficulty: easy (240 questions)
28. As used in the text, what does the word "delicate" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from Kenneth Grahame's 1908 novel The Wind in the Willows. The Mole has been found by a friend after getting lost in the woods. It is beginning to snow.
The Mole saw the wood that had been so dreadful to him in quite a changed aspect. Holes, hollows, pools, pitfalls, and other menaces to the wayfarer were vanishing fast, and a gleaming carpet was springing up everywhere, that looked too delicate to be trodden upon by rough feet. A. Accurate B. Kind C. Blank D. Fragile
Answer: D
29. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Smart watches and other small electronic devices tend to contain batteries that can't be easily ______ and swapped for new ones. Climate researcher Chloe Mikolajczak warns that because the batteries can't be taken out once they stop working, these devices have shortened life spans and quickly become waste. A. prevented B. assembled C. removed D. imagined
Answer: C
30. As used in the text, what does the phrase "steals away" most nearly mean? The following text is from Alice Moore Dunbar-Nelson's 1895 poem "In Memoriam." The speaker describes sunshine coming into a cathedral.
The light streams through the windows arched high, And o'er the stern, stone carvings breaks In warm rich gold and crimson waves, Then steals away in corners dark to die. A. Revives itself B. Sees itself C. Works away D. Slips away
Answer: D
31. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The Yupno people of the remote Finisterre Range of Papua New Guinea do not measure age and have no artificial means (e.g., clocks) of tracking time, but this does not imply that the Yupno are ______ time. As Rafael Núñez and colleagues have recently shown, the Yupno language contains many temporal expressions, such as kalip bishap, which translates to "past times." A. inattentive to B. dependent on C. meticulous about D. preoccupied with
Answer: A
32. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? Postcranial skeletal pneumaticity (PSP) refers to the presence of extensions of an animal's lungs and air sacs inside its bones. These extensions are known as pneumatic diverticula. Vascularity and other identifying characteristics of pneumatic diverticula tend not to fossilize, so paleontologists have relied on studies of living bird species to document these qualities, augmenting their findings from fossil analysis to glean additional insights into the respiratory systems of extinct genera such as Unenlagia, Phuwiangosaurus, and other Cretaceous theropods and sauropods that may have also exhibited PSP. A. It accounts for disagreements among paleontologists about how the respiratory systems of certain extinct genera functioned. B. It presents information about the fossilization of pneumatic diverticula that has led paleontologists to question the applicability of studies of certain living species. C. It indicates why paleontologists have used another approach in addition to fossil analysis to learn about certain aspects of pneumatic diverticula. D. It highlights an issue with fossils that previously led paleontologists to misidentify certain characteristics of pneumatic diverticula.
Answer: C
33. Based on the texts, how would Lorde (Text 1) most likely respond to the argument presented in Text 2?
Text 1 The poet Audre Lorde once claimed that poetry is the most inexpensive of art forms to practice. While people who pursue other art forms--painting, architecture,

theater--require large blocks of uninterrupted time as well as money to complete their work, poets can write, as Lorde said, "between shifts, in the hospital pantry, on the subway, and on scraps of surplus paper." So poets can make worthwhile art even if they must earn their living in another way.

Text 2 Any assessment of the state of contemporary poetry must reckon with the professionalization of the field. While it is possible in theory for anyone to publish in Virginia Quarterly Review, Kenyon Review, or a similar major poetry outlet, many people who do so have professional training in poetry and extensive practice writing it, which requires time not often available to those who must also work full-time jobs. Thus, financial security indirectly affects which people become poets. A. By indicating that those poets who publish in major poetry journals are most likely to be able to earn a living by writing poetry B. By suggesting that those artists who specialize in more financially rewarding artistic forms are unlikely to also be successful as poets C. By pointing out that people can produce valuable poetry in other circumstances than those described by the author of Text 2 D. By asserting that people often work full-time jobs in order to afford the professional training described in Text 2
Answer: C

34. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? The following text is from Ralph Waldo Emerson's 1841 essay "The Method of Nature."
The scholars are the priests of that thought which establishes the foundations of the earth. No matter what is their special work or profession, they stand for the spiritual interest of the world, and it is a common calamity if they neglect their post in a country where the material interest is so predominant as it is in America. A. Scholars have played an important role in society for a much longer time than have those people who are mainly concerned with financial gain. B. It is important for Americans of all kinds to have at least some military experience if society is to function properly. C. In a country whose citizens are largely preoccupied with tangible gains, it is crucial that some people work to foster and preserve ideas. D. The habit of intellectuals of privileging ideas over material things invariably leads to tragedy.
Answer: C

35. According to the text, where do Huang and colleagues think K. popovi adults stored their eggs? Although spiny lobsters and some other arthropods have long been known to actively care for their eggs and offspring, relatively little has been known about this kind of behavior in ancient insects. Now, Diying Huang and colleagues claim that Jurassic fossils from a site in China contain the earliest evidence of insect brood care. The researchers examined fossils of Karataviella popovi, an extinct water insect species, and found thirty adults that appear to have been storing clusters of eggs on one of their left legs. This discovery reveals that insects engaged in brood care much earlier than previously believed. A. On two of their right legs B. On underwater plants C. On fossilized remains of other insects D. On one of their left legs
Answer: D

36. Based on the text, what would Hincapié most likely say is a promising way to increase entrepreneurship in early adulthood? The average age at which people in the United States start businesses is 35. Economist Andrés Hincapié studied why young adults are relatively less likely to start businesses and whether there are ways to increase entrepreneurship in early adulthood. Hincapié found that one impediment is lack of knowledge about the practical details of how businesses are started; he further found that simply providing young adults with good informational resources on the topic significantly alleviates this problem. A. Creating social networks of young adults who are interested in starting a business B. Encouraging young adults to brainstorm business ideas C. Giving young adults training opportunities at a variety of businesses D. Providing young adults with practical information about how to start a business
Answer: D

37. According to the text, what draws divers and scientists to blue holes such as the Lost Blue Hole and the Taam Ja' Blue Hole? Blue holes, such as the Lost Blue Hole in the Bahamas, are large marine sinkholes. They are typically located in areas where the ocean bedrock is made of soluble material (e.g., marble) because rock erosion is crucial to their formation. Because of the diverse marine life they contain, blue holes attract numerous divers and scientists. Currently, the Taam Ja' Blue Hole in Chetumal Bay, Mexico, is the deepest blue hole on record, measured by Teresa Álvarez-Legorreta and colleagues to be at least 420 meters below sea level. A. An interest in comparing the depths of the Lost Blue Hole and the Taam Ja' Blue Hole to the depths of other blue holes B. A hope to encounter a variety of marine organisms C. A commitment to protecting the marble and other soluble materials in the blue holes D. A desire to witness the erosion of the rocks in the blue holes
Answer: B

38. Based on the text, what is the most likely reason Fierer and colleagues chose to avoid the method used in the spinach study?
In a 2024 study, Noah Fierer and colleagues examined whether the composition of soil microbial communities could affect plants' flavor chemistry. Whereas Khalid et al. (2017) showed that adding specific bacterial or fungal strains to soil can yield increased phenolic content in spinach crops, Fierer and team applied intact microbial communities gathered from ecologically distinct settings across Colorado, including areas of ponderosa pine forest and dry pasture, to mustard plants and evaluated the flavor compounds in the plants' seeds. This ensured that the microbial conditions in their experiment would better reflect the variation and complexity of naturally occurring communities.
A. The diversity of species of microorganisms in the soil from the spinach study was already abnormally high before the researchers added further microorganisms.
B. The microbial community in the soil from the spinach study affected plants' nutrition, not their flavor chemistry.
C. The composition of microorganisms in the soil in the spinach study may not have been representative of a naturally existing composition.
D. The microbial community in the soil from the spinach study likely included similar species to those in wild soils.
Answer: C

39. According to the table, what is the maximum speed for high-speed railway lines in South Korea?

Maximum Speed for High-Speed Railway Lines in Four Countries

Country Max speed (km/h)

Italy

300

Poland

200

Portugal

220

South Korea

305

A student is comparing the speeds of trains on high-speed rail lines in different countries. The table shows information about high-speed rail in four countries. A. 300 km/h B. 110 km/h C. 450 km/h D. 305 km/h
Answer: D

40. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Examples of Hoards Found in Ireland and Northern Ireland

Hoard name Date of contents Year of discovery

Description

Coleraine Hoard 5th century CE

1854

silver pieces

Ballinesker Hoard 8th century BCE

1990

gold jewelry

Ardagh Hoard 10th century CE

1868

silver and bronze pieces

An anthropologist is recording the metal contents of various historical deposits of valuables, called hoards, found in Ireland and Northern Ireland. He notes that the hoards differed in their contents; for example, ______

A. the Ardagh Hoard was the only hoard that contained bronze.

B. the Ballinesker Hoard was the only hoard that contained silver.

C. the Ballinesker Hoard contained no gold or silver.

D. neither the Coleraine Hoard nor the Ardagh Hoard contained bronze.

Answer: A

41. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Minimum and Maximum Depths of Stony Coral Species in Caribbean and Indo-Pacific Waters

Species

Minimum depth (meters) Maximum depth (meters)

Acropora echinata

8

25

Danafungia scruposa

1

27

Astreopora expansa

5

15

Scolymia lacera

10

80

A marine biologist is researching four scleractinian coral species, which are also called stony corals because of the hard skeletons they develop. Consulting the table, she notes that the two species for which the maximum depths are most similar are ______

A. Acropora echinata and Danafungia scruposa.

B. Astreopora expansa and Scolymia lacera.

C. Astreopora expansa and Acropora echinata.

D. Danafungia scruposa and Scolymia lacera.

Answer: A

42. Which choice most logically completes the text? Evan MacLean and colleagues evaluated behavioral and genetic data from over 14,000 dogs, representing more than 100 breeds, and found that genetic variations track to differing extents with behavioral variations between the breeds. This was the case for the behavioral categories of dog rivalry and energy but was especially pronounced for chasing, which can be seen when a dog pursues small animals like birds or squirrels. In another study, researchers found that the bulldog and the Yorkshire terrier breeds exhibit very different levels of chasing. When considered in light of the study by MacLean and colleagues, this finding suggests that ______ A. there may be a greater tendency toward chasing in bulldogs and Yorkshire terriers than in some other dog breeds. B. individual bulldogs may display higher levels of chasing than individual Yorkshire terriers do. C. bulldogs and Yorkshire terriers are more likely to share genes associated with chasing than to share genes associated with dog rivalry or energy. D. there may be a substantial dissimilarity between bulldogs and Yorkshire terriers in the genes associated with chasing.
Answer: D

43. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Flipzoids is a 2010 play by Ralph B. Peña. ______ play was first performed at the Peter Jay Sharp Theatre in New York City. A. These B. This C. Those D. It
Answer: B

44. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? A portrait of David Farragut, former admiral in the US Navy, appeared on the $100 coin note. This form of paper currency ______ discontinued by the US Treasury in 1893. A. being B. was C. having been D. to be
Answer: B

45. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Myrna Báez's 1974 painting Platanal was featured in the Smithsonian's 2013 exhibition Our America: The Latino Presence in American Art. The piece ______ chosen for the exhibition by curator E. Carmen Ramos. A. is being B. will be C. had been D. is
Answer: C

46. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Though best known as a novelist, in part due to the success of her 2020 horror novel Mexican Gothic, Silvia Moreno-Garcia started her career as a prolific short story writer. Before her breakout year in ______ Moreno-Garcia had published more than 75 short stories in a variety of literary outlets, including "A Handful of Earth" (2011) in Expanded Horizons, "River, Dreaming" (2013) in Shimmer, and "Phrase Book" (2014) in The Dark. A. 2020, B. 2020 when C. 2020, when D. 2020.
Answer: A

47. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? As an archaeologist, Dr. Rubén G. ______ studies historical locations all across the US Southwest and Mesoamerica, a region that includes ancient Maya sites like Altar de Sacrificios in Guatemala. A. Mendoza B. Mendoza; C. Mendoza: D. Mendoza,
Answer: A

48. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Physical barriers, chemical defenses, and protein defenses are the three main categories of plant defense mechanisms. The grey alder tree uses a ______ the trees grow protective hairs as a barrier to prevent certain herbivorous insects from feeding on the trees' leaves. A. physical barrier and B. physical barrier: C. physical barrier D. physical barrier,
Answer: B

49. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The tiny transistors that control the flow of electricity in modern devices may one day be made of wood. Researchers in Switzerland have found a way to use heat and chemicals to widen the grooves in dry pieces of balsa wood. ______ these grooves become wide enough that electrical conductors can be passed through them. A. As a result, B. In contrast, C. Previously, D. For example,
Answer: A

50. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In 1965, Morrie Turner's comic strip Wee Pals became the first strip by a Black cartoonist to be syndicated, appearing in newspapers around the country. ______ Robb Armstrong (Jump Start), Ray Billingsley (Curtis), and many more Black cartoonists achieved syndication as well. A. Earlier, B. Subsequently, C. In other words, D. Instead,
Answer: B

51. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Elvis Presley's iconic jumpsuit White Pinwheel featured rhinestones arranged in pinwheel patterns. Historians note that adornments such as these added between twenty-five and fifty pounds to each of Elvis's stage outfits. ______ the fabric used to make the outfits was light and flexible, enabling freedom of motion. A. On the other hand, B. For instance, C. That is, D. There,
Answer: A

52. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The visual magnitude scale, which measures the brightness of stars, is reverse logarithmic: the brighter a star, the lower its magnitude number. ______ the star Kaus Australis, the 38th brightest in the sky, has a higher visual magnitude number (1.85) than does the brighter star Acrux. The 13th-brightest star, Acrux has a magnitude of 0.76. A. Moreover, B. Hence, C. On the other hand, D. Nonetheless,
Answer: B

53. The student wants to emphasize a difference between the two games. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Mystery Rummy: Jekyll and Hyde is a card game based on the writing of Robert Louis Stevenson. The game features characters and events from Stevenson's novella Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. A Study in Emerald is a card game based on the writing of Neil Gaiman. The game features characters and events from Gaiman's short story "A Study in Emerald."
A. Mystery Rummy: Jekyll and Hyde, a card game based on the writing of Robert Louis Stevenson, features characters and events from the novella Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
B. Some card games feature characters and events from works of fiction; for example, A Study in Emerald is based on Neil Gaiman's short story "A Study in Emerald."
C. Both the game Mystery Rummy: Jekyll and Hyde and the game A Study in Emerald have themes inspired by works of fiction.
D. The game Mystery Rummy: Jekyll and Hyde is based on a work by Robert Louis Stevenson, while the game A Study in Emerald is based on a work by Neil Gaiman.
Answer: D

54. The student wants to indicate one or more regions where garlic mustard is causing environmental or economic harm. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
A nonnative species is considered invasive if it causes environmental or economic harm in an ecosystem. Garlic mustard is a species of flowering plant native to parts of Europe. It can also be found in the midwestern and eastern US. There, it crowds out native plants. It is considered an invasive species in the US.
A. Garlic mustard can be found in the midwestern and eastern US, where it crowds out native plants.
B. Garlic mustard is considered invasive because it crowds out native plants, causing environmental harm.
C. Garlic mustard, a flowering plant native to parts of Europe, is considered an invasive species.
D. Garlic mustard is native to the midwestern and eastern US, but elsewhere it causes environmental or economic harm.
Answer: A

175. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? "How do different surfaces affect the height a ball bounces?" One way to answer questions like this is to use the scientific method. This approach helps us ______ about topics like the height of a bouncing ball. First, we make a prediction. Then we collect and analyze data. Eventually, we can draw a conclusion based on the data we have gathered. A. fight B. forget C. laugh D. learn
Answer: D

176. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Jeanne Baré, who was the first woman to circumnavigate the world, and Gertrude Ederle, who was the first woman to swim across the English Channel, are ensured lasting places in our historical memory. No matter what others may do in the future, nobody can ever ______ the standing of these women as the first to accomplish these feats. A. extend B. undermine C. promote D. imply
Answer: B

177. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The success of Career Path in Turku, Finland--an installation prompting viewers to think about what they wanted to be as a child and what they dream about today-- exemplifies how collaborative art initiatives can ______ their communities in multiple ways, including enhancing public spaces and addressing local issues. A. predict B. avoid C. enrich D. deny
Answer: C

178. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Fossil records have allowed us to identify species like the woolly mammoth, an animal found throughout Wrangel Island near the Bering Sea before it became extinct around 4500 BCE. Current figures for the number of extinct species from this period, however, are likely to be underestimates, as most extinct animals are thought to be ______: many scientists believe there are hundreds of species from this time that we have not discovered. A. applicable B. controversial C. interconnected D. unknown
Answer: D

179. As used in the text, what does the word "breathes" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from the 1895 poem "Ojistoh" by Emily Pauline Johnson, a Kanienkahagen (Mohawk) writer also known as Tekahionwake.
I am Ojistoh, I am she, the wife Of him whose name breathes bravery and life And courage to the tribe who calls him chief. I am Ojistoh, his white star, and he Is land, and lake, and sky--and soul to me. A. Absorbs B. Defers C. Renounces D. Imparts
Answer: D

180. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? In the US, the Trademark Act of 1946 allows companies to own trademarks, which are words or images that represent specific products. "Q-tips," for example, refers to products made specifically by Unilever, the company that owns the trademark. However, the Trademark Act of 1946 also allows a trademark to be taken away if it ceases to be specific. For example, "cellophane" was once a trademark for a particular brand of food wrapping material. Over time, though, people started using "cellophane" to refer to many different brands. Because the word had become generic, a court decided that it could no longer be owned as a trademark. A. It begins the text's discussion of the fact that trademarks can be taken away. B. It adds to the text's description of products made by Unilever. C. It completes the text's comparison of trademark laws in the US to laws in other countries. D. It concludes the text's argument about how the Trademark Act of 1946 can be improved.
Answer: A

181. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
Establishing protected areas (PAs), such as South Luangwa National Park in Zambia, is a common conservation strategy, but because PAs restrict some kinds of economic activity, it's widely thought that they hinder economic development. This perception is driven in part by the fact that economic assessments often don't capture the indirect effects of tourism linked to PAs. But Heng Zhu et al. found that tourism associated with South Luangwa boosts local demand for goods and services in other economic sectors, resulting in, for instance, increased income from livestock production in nearby areas.
A. It makes a generalization about the difficulty of using PAs to reconcile economic and conservation priorities, demonstrates why most PAs fall short of achieving that goal, and then holds up a particular PA as an example of how that goal can be achieved.
B. It explains how PAs typically affect economic development in the regions where they are established, summarizes the findings of several economic studies that support this explanation, and then concedes that a particular PA is an exception to the general trend.
C. It states a hypothesis that accounts for why PAs generally negatively impact local economies, outlines how a research team's findings support that hypothesis, and then suggests how a novel methodology led a separate team of researchers to a different conclusion.
D. It introduces a widely held belief about the effect PAs have on the economy, proposes a reason for that belief's prevalence, and then details a study whose findings seemingly conflict with that belief.
Answer: D

182. Based on the texts, how would the author of Text 2 most likely characterize the study conducted by Ifrim, Schorndorf, and colleagues in Text 1?
Text 1
With a shell that measured 1.7 meters, the extinct mollusk Parapuzosia seppenradensis is the largest ammonite in the fossil record. Ever since fossilized remains of this large ammonite were first discovered in 1895, scientists have been perplexed by its size. After examining 154 ammonite fossils including P. seppenradensis fossils from England and Parapuzosia leptophylla (a smaller ammonite species) fossils from Mexico, paleontologist Christina Ifrim, Nils Schorndorf, and colleagues concluded that P. seppenradensis may have evolved from P. leptophylla and gradually increased in size as larger ammonites were better able to escape being preyed on by mosasaurs.

Text 2 Christina Ifrim and her team have expanded our understanding of the evolutionary history of ammonites in general, but their study has some gaps that will require additional research to fill. For instance, there's evidence that mosasaurs preyed on ammonites, but there's no direct evidence that they interacted specifically with P. seppenradensis. A. It is useful for the field as a whole, but a portion of it might be unfounded. B. It is likely to become outdated quickly, but it features an impressive amount of data. C. It is correct with regard to P. seppenradensis, but its claims about P. leptophylla are likely overstated. D. It is relevant to the study of ammonites, but it overlooks the evolutionary history of mosasaurs.
Answer: A

184. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Home Console and Computer Games of the 1980s

Title

Approximate number of units sold worldwide Genre Developer

Super Mario Land

18,140,000

platformer Nintendo R&D1

Baseball

3,200,000

sports Nintendo R&D1

Tetris

43,000,000

puzzle Nintendo R&D1

Kung Fu

3,500,000

action Nintendo R&D1

A student is writing a paper on the global rise of the home video game industry during the 1980s. The student is researching the relative popularity of various genres of console and computer games. Looking at the information in the table, the student finds that the games in the genres of ______

A. puzzle and platformer outsold the games in the other genres.

B. puzzle and sports sold nearly the same number of units.

C. platformer and sports outsold the games in the other genres.

D. platformer and action sold nearly the same number of units.

Answer: A

185. Which quotation from a student best illustrates the underlined claim? Museums sometimes make parts of their collections available online. The New Orleans Museum of Art in New Orleans, Louisiana, and the National Gallery in Prague, Czechia, have both shared digital images of some of their artworks in online collections. Online collections make it much easier for people to experience art belonging to museums that aren't located close to them. A. "The New Orleans Museum of Art is far away from where I live, but I was able to look at some of its art online today." B. "I probably won't visit the New Orleans Museum of Art because I don't like art museums very much." C. "The last time I went to a museum, I spent the whole day looking at different things on display." D. "My family members enjoy going to museums when they travel."
Answer: A

186. Which quotation from The Man in the Brown Suit most effectively illustrates the claim? The Man in the Brown Suit is a 1924 novel by Agatha Christie. In the novel, the protagonist, Anne Beddingfeld, talks about how much her father disliked living in the present era, saying, ______ A. "Papa looked pained." B. "[Papa] returned late that evening, and, to my dismay, I saw his overcoat was missing." C. "[Papa's] mind dwelt in Palaeolithic times, and the inconvenience of life for him was that his body inhabited the modern world." D. "Although [Papa] was a fellow of almost every important society, and had rows of letters after his name, the general public scarcely knew of his existence."
Answer: C

187. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Bird Species by Average Mass

Common name Average mass (kg) Capable of flight?

Kori bustard

11.4

Yes

Emperor penguin

31.5

No

Somali ostrich

90.0

No

Wandering albatross

11.9

Yes

Most bird species that are capable of flight weigh less than a kilogram (kg), which is not surprising considering the burden that extra body weight puts on a flying animal. But not all flying birds are so light, as we can see most clearly in the example of the ______

A. kori bustard, which has an average mass below 10 kg.

B. wandering albatross, which has an average mass of 11.9 kg.

C. Somali ostrich, which has an average mass of 90.0 kg.

D. Somali ostrich, which has a higher average mass than the emperor penguin.

Answer: B

188. Which quotation from "The Open Boat" most effectively illustrates the claim? "The Open Boat" is an 1897 short story by Stephen Crane. In the story, four men are at sea in a lifeboat. The narrator suggests that the progress of the boat is dependent on the forces of nature: ______ A. "These waves were of the hue of slate, save for the tops, which were of foaming white, and all of the men knew the colours of the sea." B. "There was a long, loud swishing astern of the boat, and a gleaming trail of phosphorescence, like blue flame, was furrowed on the black waters." C. "It was a long afternoon. A changed tide tried to force [the boat] southward, but wind and wave said northward." D. "There was a terrible grace in the move of the waves, and they came in silence, save for the snarling of the crests."
Answer: C
189. Which choice most logically completes the text? A typical string quartet consists of two violin players, a viola player, and a cello player. When a string quartet performs, one violinist and the cellist usually sit facing the audience. The violist and the other violinist usually sit facing each other. This seating arrangement causes the viola's carved sound openings, or f-holes, to be angled away from the audience. Therefore, if the viola player has a musical solo and wants to make sure that the audience can hear it clearly, the violist typically ______ A. looks at the sheet music instead of looking at the audience. B. instructs the other members of the quartet to play louder. C. plays at the same volume as the cellist. D. shifts position in order to face outwards toward the audience.
Answer: D
190. Which choice most logically completes the text? It is hard for publishers and printers to create very long books that balance the requirements of readability, durability, and cost. Among some exceptionally long novels published in English, Leo Tolstoy's War and Peace (translated from Russian) was published in a 1,440-page edition and runs to an estimated 587,000 words, while Stephen King's The Stand (written originally in English) was published in a 1,472-page edition and runs to an estimated 470,000 words. This indicates that ______ A. page count is likely to be a more reliable indicator of how long it takes to read a book than word count. B. translating a text from Russian to English is likely to increase the word count. C. the edition of The Stand is printed on thinner paper than the edition of War and Peace. D. the edition of War and Peace has more words per page than the edition of The Stand.
Answer: D
191. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the landowner Emma C. Huston was honored by having Huston Street named ______ her. A. after; B. after, C. after D. after:
Answer: C
192. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In the twentieth century, many countries developed secret codes. These codes were used ______ plans during wartime. A. have communicated B. communicates C. communicate D. to communicate
Answer: D
193. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When Emily Brontë published the novel Wuthering Heights in 1847, Brontë's name didn't actually appear on the book's cover. That's because Brontë chose ______ a pen name: Ellis Bell. A. used B. will use C. to use D. use
Answer: C
194. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The city of Bern, Switzerland, is home to an office of the International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol). However, you won't see Interpol agents chasing international criminals in Bern. Interpol can help with investigations, but only Swiss authorities ______ permitted to make arrests there. A. were B. had been C. are D. were being
Answer: C
195. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Laura Grieneisen is a biologist at the University of ______ conducts research on primates. A. Minnesota. She B. Minnesota she C. Minnesota, she D. Minnesota. Where she
Answer: A
197. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Artists' palettes--the surfaces on which painters arrange and mix their paints--can provide valuable insights into the painters' creative processes. In her 2024 book The Artist's Palette, Alexandra Loske analyzes the palettes of 50 different painters across 500 years. ______ Loske reveals clues about the techniques and practices of such artists as Kerry James Marshall, Artemisia Gentileschi, and Vincent van Gogh. A. In doing so, B. Lastly, C. In comparison, D. However,
Answer: A
198. The student wants to emphasize a difference between Beaux and Artschwager. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The Carnegie Prize is an international art competition administered by the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Painter Cecilia Beaux of the US won a Carnegie Prize gold medal in 1899. Beaux's winning artwork was a painting entitled Mother and Daughter. Sculptor Richard Artschwager of the US won a Carnegie Prize gold medal in 1995. Artschwager's winning artwork was a sculpture entitled Table Prepared in the Presence of Enemies. A. Both Beaux and Artschwager won Carnegie Prize gold medals for their artworks. B. Beaux won a Carnegie Prize gold medal in 1899 for the painting Mother and Daughter. C. Carnegie Prize gold medals have been awarded to both painters and sculptors. D. Beaux won a Carnegie Prize gold medal for a painting, while Artschwager won for a sculpture.
Answer: D
199. The student wants to compare the length of time Maria Younghans and Catherine A. Moore worked as lighthouse keepers. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Lighthouses send out crucial light signals to help ships and other watercraft navigate at night. Before automation, lighthouses were run by lighthouse keepers. Maria Younghans was the lighthouse keeper at Biloxi Light in Mississippi. She held this position for fifty-one years (1867-1918). Catherine A. Moore was the lighthouse keeper at Black Rock Harbor Light in Connecticut. She held this position for sixty-one years (1817-1878). A. Before automation, lighthouse keepers like Maria Younghans, who served for fifty-one years, and Catherine A. Moore were crucial to ensuring safe navigation for watercraft. B. Maria Younghans worked as a lighthouse keeper for fifty-one years, but Catherine A. Moore did so for even longer: sixty-one years. C. Maria Younghans and Catherine A. Moore were both lighthouse keepers at a time when such a person was needed to operate a lighthouse. D. From 1867 to 1918, the nighttime waters of Mississippi were more navigable thanks to lighthouse keepers Maria Younghans and Catherine A. Moore.
Answer: B
200. The student wants to emphasize the combined deadweight tonnage of Greece's merchant ships in 2021. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
A merchant ship is any ship hired to carry cargo or passengers. A ship's carrying capacity is also known as its deadweight tonnage (DWT). In 2021, there were a total of 1,236 merchant ships registered in Greece. The combined DWT of these ships was 64.9 million tons. A. There were a total of 1,236 merchant ships--ships hired to carry cargo or passengers--registered in Greece in 2021. B. Combined, Greece's merchant ships had a deadweight tonnage of 64.9 million tons in 2021. C. In 2021, Greece had 1,236 merchant ships hired to carry cargo or passengers. D. The carrying capacity of a merchant ship is also known as deadweight tonnage.
Answer: B
324. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? In a 2020 experiment, Kai Ruggeri and his team presented participants from Norway, Belgium, and seventeen other countries with questions that were ______ those used in a groundbreaking 1979 study. By using the same questions that the earlier study did, Ruggeri and his team attempted to reproduce that study's findings. A. more difficult than B. less entertaining than C. identical to D. unavailable to
Answer: C
325. As used in the text, what does the word "produce" most nearly mean? The following text is from Oscar Wilde's 1893 play Lady Windermere's Fan.
MRS. ERLYNNE: I am going to live abroad again. The English climate doesn't suit me. My--heart is affected here, and that I don't like. I prefer living in the south. London is too full of fogs and--and serious people, Lord Windermere. Whether the fogs produce the serious people or whether the serious people produce the fogs, I don't know, but the whole thing rather gets on my nerves. A. Enjoy B. Fasten C. Make available D. Bring about
Answer: D
326. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? A study by Mohamed Alburaki, Maria Bouga, and colleagues suggests that overall, US honey bee populations exhibit low genetic diversity. Working with a large sample of honey bee specimens collected from most US states, the researchers determined that there are just three maternal evolutionary lineages in the populations: the North Mediterranean lineage, the West Mediterranean lineage, and the African lineage. They found that of the specimens from Oregon, 100% descended from the North Mediterranean lineage--a finding in keeping with that for the lineage in many of the other states studied. A. It summarizes the central conclusions of the study that is discussed in the text. B. It expands on the claim made earlier in the sentence by providing specific data. C. It acknowledges that the results of the study discussed in the text are not entirely consistent with the researchers' hypothesis. D. It indicates that a result described earlier in the sentence reflects a widespread trend.
Answer: D
328. Based on the texts, the author of Text 1 and the author of Text 2 would most likely agree on which point?

Text 1
For thousands of years, O'odham farmers in the Sonoran desert of the southwestern US and northern Mexico have cultivated organ pipe fruit and beans, sometimes planting these species together so that the organ pipe cacti provide shade for tepary beans. Doing so helps protect tepary beans from the harshest heat and light and thereby helps prevent soil moisture from evaporating.

Text 2 Tepary beans are well adapted to growing in the desert but grow best when shaded. Inspired by O'odham farmers, who often strategically plant tepary beans in the shade of sun-hardy species like organ pipe cacti for protection from the sun and heat, Gary Nabhan and colleagues planted tepary beans in the shade of solar panels in the Sonoran desert and found that the plants grew well, suggesting to Nabhan and colleagues that the panels provide a benefit similar to that provided by organ pipe cacti. A. Compared with Nabhan's approach, the O'odham approach has the advantage of producing beans. B. Organ pipe cacti grow best when planted in shaded areas, while tepary beans do not require shade to thrive. C. Nabhan's team's method could be refined to more actively prevent soil moisture from evaporating. D. Organ pipe cacti can provide shade that protects tepary beans from high-intensity heat and light.
Answer: D

332. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Millions of Metric Tons of Copper Mined in 1995 and 2020

Country 1995 2020

Zambia 0.33 0.85

Peru

0.38 2.15

Indonesia 0.44 0.51

Canada 0.73 0.59

While doing research for a paper about metal exports, a student finds a table indicating how much copper was mined in each of four countries in 1995 and 2020. The student notes that in 1995, Zambia mined ______

A. 0.33 million metric tons of copper.

B. 0.38 million metric tons of copper.

C. 0.44 million metric tons of copper.

D. 0.73 million metric tons of copper.

Answer: A

333. Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the researcher's example?

Days

Days per Winter That Lakes Have Surface Ice
200

160

120

80

40

0 80-81
19

05-06 20

Winter

Oulujärvi Mirror Lake Lake Neusiedl

It is common for freshwater lakes near or above a latitude of 45° north of the equator, like Lake Mjøsa in Norway, to accumulate surface ice in winter. A study from 1980 to 2006 showed that, in general, the number of days per winter that such lakes have measurable amounts of surface ice is declining. However, a researcher claimed that some lakes have instead seen an increase in the duration of ice, citing as an example ______ A. Lake Neusiedl, which had more days of ice in the winter of 2005-06 than it did in the winter of 1980-81. B. both Lake Neusiedl and Oulujärvi, which had fewer than 195 days of ice in the winter of 1980-81. C. both Lake Neusiedl and Oulujärvi, which had more than 105 days of ice in the winter of 2005-06. D. both Mirror Lake and Oulujärvi, which had more days of ice in the winter of 2005-06 than they did in the winter of 1980-81.
Answer: A

337. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Aubergine is a 2016 play by Julia Cho. ______ play was first performed at the Playwrights Horizons theater in New York City. A. This B. It C. Those D. These
Answer: A

338. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The film Okpik: Little Village in the Arctic is a short documentary released in 2022. It ______ directed by Inuit filmmaker Tiffany Ayalik. A. was B. have been C. are D. were
Answer: A

339. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Though best known as a novelist, in part due to the success of her 2020 horror novel Mexican Gothic, Silvia Moreno-Garcia started her career as a prolific short story writer. The list of more than 75 short ______ she published before Mexican Gothic includes works like "King of Sand and Stormy Seas" (2006) and "The Performance" (2012). A. stories, that B. stories--that C. stories that D. stories, which
Answer: C

341. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? A 2024 study cataloged all the trees in Amsterdam to evaluate the biodiversity of the city's urban forest. The researchers, finding that administrative unit GT23 had a 1.45 ratio of native to non-native trees, ______ efforts to preserve the biodiversity of the trees in that unit and other areas with a similarly high ratio. A. to recommend B. recommending C. having recommended D. recommended
Answer: D

342. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Iain Stott is a biologist at the University of ______ conducts research on plants. A. Lincoln. He B. Lincoln he C. Lincoln, he D. Lincoln. Where he
Answer: A

348. The student wants to emphasize a similarity between Almaty and Auckland. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Usually, a country's capital is also its largest city by population. The capital of Kazakhstan is Nur-Sultan. Its largest city by population is Almaty. The capital of New Zealand is Wellington. Its largest city by population is Auckland.
A. The most populous city in Kazakhstan is Almaty, but its capital is Nur-Sultan.
B. While Almaty is in Kazakhstan, Auckland is in New Zealand.
C. Although neither is a capital city, both Almaty and Auckland are the most populous cities in their countries.
D. The capital of Kazakhstan is Nur-Sultan; the capital of New Zealand is Wellington.
Answer: C

472. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The tendency to group authors together into distinct literary movements often encourages literary scholars to overlook subtleties in an author's style. Those studying the works of William Henry Furness, for instance, may inadvertently ______ nuances in his work by focusing only on the most discernible ways in which his style corresponds to transcendentalism. A. disregard B. replicate C. underscore D. admire
Answer: A

473. Which choice best states the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? Vertical gene transfer involves the transmission of genetic material from a parent to offspring; horizontal gene transfer, on the other hand, involves the exchange of genetic material between organisms not in a parent-offspring relationship. While horizontal gene transfer is common among prokaryotes--single-celled organisms, such as the bacteria Brevibacillus borstelensis and Lactobacillus curvatus--it has rarely been observed among eukaryotes (multicellular organisms). However, new studies suggest that horizontal gene transfer is more common in eukaryotes than originally thought. A. It argues that two biological phenomena are more similar than they may initially appear to be. B. It indicates a distinction between the mechanics of two kinds of biological processes. C. It contrasts the frequency with which a biological phenomenon has been detected in two categories of organisms. D. It explains why a common perception of a biological process is flawed.
Answer: C

475. Based on the texts, which choice describes conditions under which the author of Text 2 would be most likely to accept the predictions described in Text 1?
Text 1
According to a study by a conservation group representing 11 tribal nations in the Great Lakes region, the region's walleye (ogaa in the Ojibwe language) will have significantly worse outcomes over the next 50 years if temperatures increase as much as some models suggest. By contrast, the black bear (makwa in Ojibwe) should be able to withstand the highest predicted warming without much harm.

Text 2 Researchers must be careful when developing predictions about how plants and animals will respond to future environmental changes. Ecosystems are complex and difficult to generalize about. Researchers should not assume that a given species will respond the same way in every place and time. Predictions developed without close attention to local circumstances are likely to fail. A. The walleye and black bear in the Great Lakes are predicted to respond differently if temperatures rise only moderately than if temperatures rise to the highest predicted levels. B. The responses of the walleye and black bear predicted by this study are similar to the responses predicted by studies of other species from the Great Lakes. C. The predictions about the responses of the walleye and black bear are based on a thorough study of conditions in the Great Lakes specifically. D. Conditions in the Great Lakes are similar to conditions in other ecosystems where the walleye and black bear are predicted to experience increased temperatures.
Answer: C
477. Which statement about El Museo del Barrio is best supported by the text? Founded in 1969, El Museo del Barrio showcases the visual arts and cultures of Latin America and of Latino communities in the United States. It is located in New York City and has more than 8,500 objects in its collection. Since 2000, a number of other institutions devoted to Latino cultures have opened in the United States. A notable example is LA Plaza de Cultura y Artes in Los Angeles. It focuses on Mexican American art and culture. A. It was founded after 2000. B. Its collection includes over 8,500 objects. C. It is no longer located in New York City. D. It is visited by more people than any other Latino cultural institution in the US.
Answer: B
478. Which quotation from a student who visited the museum best illustrates the underlined claim? The Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, in Boston, Massachusetts, has a huge number of works of art. The museum has shared digital images of many of its pieces, including Dos Mujeres (Salvadora y Herminia) by Frida Kahlo and Supermodel by Kerry James Marshall. Online viewers can zoom in very closely on some of those images. This means that online viewers get a more detailed look at some works of art than viewers in a museum do. A. "I had heard about the painting by Frida Kahlo before, so I was excited to see it in the museum when I visited." B. "I visited the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, recently. Later, I remembered Supermodel and wanted to learn more about the artist." C. "I zoomed in on Dos Mujeres (Salvadora y Herminia) on my computer. I saw fine lines that I hadn't been able to see when I looked at the piece in the museum." D. "The first time I ever saw any art by Kerry James Marshall was when I went to the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, with my class."
Answer: C
480. Which finding about Charadriiformes and the 12 other orders identified in the recent study, if true, would best support the researchers' prediction? When a predator nears the nesting site of a pied oystercatcher (Haematopus longirostris), the bird will lead the predator away from the nest by pretending to be injured and unable to fly. This behavior is called "broken-wing display" and was long thought to be used only in the order Charadriiformes (shorebirds). However, recent research has shown that species from Anseriformes (waterfowl), Cuculiformes (cuckoos), and 10 additional avian orders use the display--particularly those species that experience high levels of predation. Given that species with higher predation rates tend to have shorter incubation durations, some researchers have predicted that the defensive behavior is associated with relatively short incubation periods. A. Nearly 90% of species in the order Charadriiformes have been observed using broken-wing display to deter predators during an incubation period, while only 30% of species in the other 12 orders have been observed doing so. B. Across those orders, broken-wing display has been observed in approximately 80% of species with incubation periods under 20 days and approximately 58% of species with incubation periods over 30 days. C. The use of broken-wing display has been confirmed in 285 individual species from those orders, representing a range of incubation periods, from a minimum of 10 days to a maximum of 44 days. D. The mean incubation period is 22 days for species from those orders, regardless of the species' use of broken-wing display.
Answer: B
483. Which choice most logically completes the text? Many studies have found a positive association between levels of dissolved organic carbon and mercury in bodies of fresh water undisturbed by human activity. But Enelton Fagnani, José Roberto Guimarã, and Pedro Sérgio Fadini did not find this correlation in an examination of freshwater bodies disturbed by industrial activity, leading some scientists to hypothesize that the association could be particular to undisturbed waters. However, Jeffrey D. Jeremiason and colleagues carried out a study on freshwater bodies disturbed by mining that showed similar results to the studies on undisturbed waters, suggesting that ______ A. the effects of industrial activity on the association between levels of dissolved organic carbon and mercury should not be taken as indicative of the effects of every type of human disturbance. B. disturbances linked to industrial activity affect significantly more bodies of fresh water than disturbances linked to mining do. C. Fagnani, Guimarã, and Fadini's study used different methods to measure the concentration of mercury in fresh water than Jeremiason and colleagues' study did. D. levels of dissolved organic carbon and mercury are both much higher in bodies of fresh water disturbed by industrial activity than they are in bodies of fresh water disturbed by mining.
Answer: A
484. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the soprano and philanthropist Ellen Beach Yaw was honored by having Lark Ellen Avenue named ______ her. A. after, B. after; C. after: D. after
Answer: D
485. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The atomic structure of an element ______ the element's place on the periodic table. A. determining B. to determine C. having determined D. determines
Answer: D
488. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Many works of the Roman poet Lucan (1st century CE) are ______ his Pharsalia, an epic poem about Julius Caesar, is an extant work: it can still be read. A. lost, and conversely B. lost, conversely, C. lost and conversely, D. lost. Conversely,
Answer: D
489. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Physical barriers, chemical defenses, and protein defenses are the three main categories of plant defense mechanisms. The English oak tree uses a ______ the trees produce chemicals that disrupt certain herbivorous insects' ability to digest food. A. chemical defense B. chemical defense, C. chemical defense and

D. chemical defense:
Answer: D
491. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The San Lorenzo archaeological site is located in our home state of Veracruz, Mexico. ______ a 20-ton stone statue of a human head was left behind by the ancient Olmec civilization. In the nearby state of Tabasco was another stone statue that weighs 24 tons. A. Therefore, B. Similarly, C. Here, D. In other words,
Answer: C
492. The student wants to emphasize a similarity between the two sculptures. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The End is a 2010 sculpture by Korean artist Jung Lee. It is crafted from blue neon lighting that spells out the title phrase ("the end"). Pyramid (Yellow) is a 2011 sculpture by Mexican-Swiss artist Ana Roldán. It is crafted from yellow neon lighting that forms an abstract triangle shape. A. The neon lighting in The End is blue, but the lighting in Pyramid (Yellow) is yellow. B. Roldán's sculpture Pyramid (Yellow) consists of yellow neon lighting in an abstract triangle shape. C. Both Lee's and Roldán's sculptures are crafted from neon lighting. D. Rather than spelling out a phrase, Roldán's sculpture forms an abstract triangle shape.
Answer: C
494. The student wants to indicate the location of the Isthmus of Avalon. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
An isthmus is a strip of land that connects two larger pieces of land across an expanse of water. It is also known as a land bridge. The Isthmus of Avalon connects the Avalon Peninsula to Newfoundland. The Isthmus of Avalon is located in Canada. A. An isthmus, or land bridge, like the Isthmus of Avalon, connects two larger pieces of land. B. The Isthmus of Avalon is located in Canada, where it connects the Avalon Peninsula to Newfoundland. C. An isthmus, also known as a land bridge, is a strip of land that connects two larger pieces of land across an expanse of water. D. One example of an isthmus is the Isthmus of Avalon.
Answer: B
616. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? In Peru, young Quechua and Aymara artists are ______ a new music genre. Two Indigenous artists creating this new sound are Cay Sur and Renata Flores, who rap in the Quechua language and blend hip-hop rhythms with traditional Andean instruments and themes. A. repeating B. remembering C. developing D. correcting
Answer: C
618. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Bing Xie and her team have discovered that plains zebras make at least four types of vocalizations: "snorts," "soft snorts," "squeals," and "quagga quagga" calls. The researchers used machine-learning algorithms to ______ recorded vocalizations according to type, finding that snorts vary across individual zebras, while squeals are more uniform across zebra populations. A. categorize B. suppress C. extend D. collapse
Answer: A
624. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? Ruth Asawa was an accomplished artist who worked in many art forms, including her unique tied-wire sculptures, but she was dedicated to more than the creation of art. Asawa also wanted to bring art to children in her hometown of San Francisco, California. To that end, in 1968 she cofounded the Alvarado School Arts Workshop, which brought works of art and artists into public schools, and in 1982 she helped found a San Francisco public arts high school, which was later named after her. A. Asawa left a promising career as a sculptor to work as an art teacher in San Francisco schools. B. Asawa inspired many other artists to share their work with students in public schools. C. Asawa's unique sculptures were appreciated more by local art communities than they were nationwide. D. Asawa's interest in art education prompted her to create art programs for students in San Francisco.
Answer: D
628. Which quotation from a translation of The Underdogs most effectively illustrates the claim? The Underdogs is a 1915 novel by Mariano Azuela, originally written in Spanish. In the novel, Azuela makes a comparison using natural imagery to convey the mental state of the protagonist, Demetrio: ______ A. "Demetrio laid a hand on his hair which covered his ears, and stretching himself out for a long time, seemed to be lost in thought." B. "Demetrio suppressed a sigh. Memories crowded and buzzed through his brain like bees about a hive." C. "Yet he was previous; an hour or more elapsed with no sound or stir save the song of the locust in the brush or the frog stirring in his mudhole." D. "At this hour, as usual, the calcinated rocks, the sun-burnt branches, and the dry weeds faded into the semi-obscurity of the shadows."
Answer: B
631. Which choice most logically completes the text? The advent of online streaming has led many music listeners to drift away from ownership of music (through downloads or through physical media such as compact discs) and toward the streaming services YouTube Music and Jango, among others. Datta et al. studied the impact of this change on the variety of music that listeners consume. The researchers reasoned that the ownership model of music assigns a cost per song to acquiring a variety of music, while streaming services typically charge a flat fee for access to an entire music catalog, making variety free, which suggests that ______ A. music publishers who choose to forgo releasing music on physical media are likely to see no change in revenue. B. listeners who prefer to purchase compact discs rather than use a service such as YouTube Music or Jango would tend to listen to older music. C. the music choices of listeners who use streaming services would likely be more varied than those of listeners who do not use streaming services. D. listeners who use streaming services would be more likely to give physical copies of music as gifts to others than to purchase physical copies for themselves.
Answer: C
632. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the famous aviator Amelia Earhart was honored by having Earhart Avenue named ______ her. A. after; B. after: C. after, D. after
Answer: D
640. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Plant species known as metal hyperaccumulators can help remove heavy metal pollutants from soil. Paspalum fasciculatum, or bamboo grass, for instance, can absorb a large quantity of cadmium and store it safely in its roots and shoots. ______ the plant's roots may not reach far enough into the soil to eliminate the pollutant entirely. A. On the contrary, B. For this reason, C. Moreover, D. Still,
Answer: D
642. The student wants to emphasize a difference between the meters of the two poems. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The meter of a poem is the rhythmic structure or pattern of accents in its lines. Alliterative meter is structured by a pattern of repeated sounds. Quantitative meter is structured by a pattern of long and short syllables. The Old English poem Widsith uses an alliterative meter. The Sanskrit poem Meghadta uses a quantitative meter. A. Alliterative meter is a pattern of repeated sounds, but quantitative meter is a rhythmic structure or pattern of accents. B. The lines of the poem Meghadta use a pattern of long and short syllables, whereas Widsith's lines use a pattern of repeated sounds. C. The Sanskrit poem Meghadta uses a quantitative meter, while the meter of the Old English poem Widsith uses a pattern of long and short syllables. D. The poem Widsith is written in Old English, but Meghadta is written in Sanskrit.
Answer: B
768. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? Moving beyond a simple "present or absent" designation, researchers created a new classification system that allows for a nuanced understanding of bioluminescence in marine organisms that was unavailable under binary classification systems. The new six-point scale considers varying levels of supporting evidence used to identify bioluminescent species. For example, the helmet jellyfish scores 1 because of inconsistent reports, the painted armhook squid scores 4 because of its anatomical similarity to known luminous relatives, and the veined squid scores 6 because of substantiated direct observations. A. It explains how the new classification system was derived from the previous binary system. B. It justifies the need for a new classification system for marine species. C. It explains the basis for the new system's scoring criteria. D. It emphasizes the thoroughness of the research conducted.
Answer: C
773. Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the sentence?
Percentage of US Congress Members Who Self-Identified as Veterans, 1953-2023
80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
1953 1973 1993 2003 2013 2023 Year
House of Representatives Senate
Since the nation's earliest days, both houses of the United States Congress have counted many military veterans among their elected officials, including Hiram L. Fong (who served in the US Army Air Force) and Ralph Harold Metcalfe Sr. (who served in the US Army). A research institute gathered historical data about congressional members who have reported past military experience and determined that ______ A. from 1953 to 2003, those members constituted a majority in both houses of Congress. B. from 2003 to 2023, the House of Representatives had a higher percentage of those members than the Senate did. C. the percentage of those members decreased substantially in both houses of Congress from 1973 to 2013. D. the percentage of those members remained fairly consistent, regardless of house, from 1993 to 2023.
Answer: C
777. Which choice most logically completes the text? Whereas Joan Lockard's 1984 study of captive gorillas reported more right-handedness than left-handedness, Jane Goodall's 1963 study of wild chimpanzees did not. According to a meta-analysis of studies of nonhuman primates, captive populations are more likely to be described as right-handed than wild populations are. Statistical analysis indicates a handedness study would need a minimum of 176 individuals to show a representative result; however, the study by Lockard included a total population of 8, and the study by Goodall included a total population of 8. This suggests that ______ A. Goodall likely underestimated the prevalence of right-handedness among the wild chimpanzees in the study. B. the study by Lockard reliably represents handedness in captive primates but not in wild primates. C. the study by Lockard reliably represents handedness in captive primates, but the study by Goodall likely does not reliably represent handedness in wild primates. D. neither the study by Lockard nor the study by Goodall provides sufficient evidence to make a meaningful comparison about handedness in primates.
Answer: D
781. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? While some biologists cite the biological species concept (Mayr 1942), others adhere to the genotypic cluster species concept (Mallet 1995), with at least fourteen other concepts used across the field. Such lack of consensus, however, isn't necessarily cause for alarm. Scholars supporting a pluralist approach--in place of a single, monistic concept--to defining a species ______ that a diversity of species concepts fits their equally diverse applications throughout the discipline. A. to argue B. argues C. is arguing D. argue
Answer: D
783. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Adriana Briscoe is a biologist at UC ______ conducts research on insects. A. Irvine. Where she B. Irvine. She C. Irvine she D. Irvine, she
Answer: B
785. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? While some researchers have identified the planet Kepler-705b as potentially habitable, it's unlikely that humanity will be able to take advantage of its favorable conditions anytime soon--it's 903 light years away. ______ humanity must first focus on making planets within our solar system more habitable. A. Likewise, B. For example, C. Instead, D. Next,
Answer: C
921. Which choice most effectively uses a quotation from a translation of The Clouds to illustrate the claim? The Clouds is a 423 BCE play by Aristophanes, originally written in ancient Greek. At the time, professional intellectuals called sophists taught paying customers a variety of subjects and sometimes engaged in what would now be described as research. Aristophanes satirizes sophists' practices and views as foolish, as seen when the character ______ A. Strepsiades encourages his son to learn to be a sophist, saying, "Go, I entreat you, dearest of men, go and be taught." B. Strepsiades, after taking lessons from a sophist, says to his son, "Approach, that you may know more; and I will tell you a thing, by learning which you will be a man. But see that you do not teach this to any one." C. Socrates, a sophist, explains why he studies astronomy while sitting in a basket hanging a few feet off the ground, saying, "I should not have rightly discovered things celestial if I had not suspended the intellect, and mixed the thought in a subtle form with its kindred air." D. Socrates, a sophist, says to a customer, "You straightaway forget whatever you learn. For what now was the first thing you were taught? Tell me."
Answer: C
923. Which choice most logically completes the text? Scientists recently created a model to predict how increasing pest activity will affect future mammal population sizes in US national forests. Unfortunately, when the model is applied to large forests, its predictions for large-mammal populations are too high, and when applied to small forests, its predictions for small-mammal populations are too high. Salmon-Challis National Forest in Idaho is a large forest, covering more than 4 million acres. If used to evaluate the effect of increasing pest activity on this forest in ten years, the model would likely therefore ______ A. reflect factors affecting large mammals other than increasing pest activity. B. overestimate the actual population sizes of large mammals. C. ignore the predator-prey relationships between large and small mammals. D. exaggerate the effect of increasing pest activity on small mammals.
Answer: B
928. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Pooch is an oil painting by Vera Barnett, an American artist. Barnett created ______ in 2021. A. it B. these C. those D. them
Answer: A
930. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Anahi Espindola is a biologist at the University of ______ conducts research on bees. A. Maryland. Where she B. Maryland, she C. Maryland. She D. Maryland she
Answer: C
936. The student wants to present the study's research methods. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Suzanne K. Birner led a study analyzing rocks on the seafloor to better understand the history of Earth's mantle. Rock samples were collected from two seafloor ridges. The researchers determined the samples' period of formation (the Archean eon) and oxidation level (extremely low). High temperatures in the Archean likely caused the rocks' low oxidation. Birner's team suggests the oxidation of Earth's mantle has remained stable over time, contrary to previous theories. The findings help explain the unique conditions that allowed life to develop on Earth. A. Birner led a study to better understand the history of Earth's mantle and explain the conditions that allowed life to develop. B. By studying these ancient rocks, the team aimed to challenge previous theories about changes in Earth's mantle over time. C. Birner's team analyzed the age and oxidation levels of rock samples collected from two seafloor ridges. D. To further analyze the origins of Earth's unique conditions, researchers focused on rocks from the Archean eon, when Earth's temperatures were extremely high.
Answer: C
1067. Which quotation from Peter Pan best supports the claim? Peter Pan is a 1911 novel by J.M. Barrie. In the fantasy novel, Peter is a young boy who can fly. He brings Wendy, John, and Michael to Neverland, the mythical island where he lives. The narrator suggests that activity on the island stops when Peter is away and starts again when he is about to return: ______ A. "Feeling that Peter was on his way back, the Neverland had again woke into life." B. "Wendy and John and Michael stood on tip-toe in the air to get their first sight of the island." C. "The children often spent long summer days on [the] lagoon." D. "Peter rose from his tree."

Percent

1070. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the Catholic nun Sister Ann Gillen was honored by having Ann Street named ______ her. A. after, B. after: C. after; D. after

1072. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When Charles Dickens published the novel The Pickwick Papers in 1836, Dickens's name didn't actually appear on the book's cover. That's because Dickens chose ______ a pen name: Boz. A. to use B. will use C. used D. use

1073. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Youki and a Cat is a painting by Léonard Tsuguharu Foujita, a French Japanese artist. Foujita created ______ in 1923. A. those B. it C. these D. them

1075. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Jessica Stephenson is a biologist at the University of ______ conducts research on fish. A. Pittsburgh. She B. Pittsburgh she C. Pittsburgh, she D. Pittsburgh. Where she

1076. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In 2003, some 393 years after Galileo Galilei and Simon Marius independently discovered Jupiter's four largest moons (Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto), scientists discovered the moon Eupheme in orbit around Jupiter. ______ researchers have discovered eighty moons orbiting Jupiter. A. Rather, B. To date, C. In other words, D. For example,

1078. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize the geographic similarities between the two newspapers?
Throughout the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, populations of Black Americans increased in many cities throughout the state of New York. During this time, many Black newspapers were founded. The newspapers were largely by and for the Black communities in which they were based. The New York Recorder ran from 1953 to 1987 in New York City, New York. The Syracuse Gazette News Weekly ran from 1973 to 1976 in Syracuse, New York.
A. The New York Recorder was one of many Black newspapers to spring up in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, debuting in 1953 and later followed by the Syracuse Gazette News Weekly in 1973.
B. Many Black newspapers, such as the New York Recorder, which was founded in 1953, sprung up in cities throughout New York to provide a voice for their growing Black communities.
C. From 1953 to 1987, the New York Recorder served the Black community of New York City, New York, as did the Syracuse Gazette News Weekly.
D. The New York Recorder and the Syracuse Gazette News Weekly, both based in New York, are among the many Black newspapers that sprung up in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries to provide a voice to the growing Black communities throughout the state.

1081. The student wants to emphasize a difference between the two seaweeds. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The human tongue contains taste receptors for a rich, savory flavor called umami. Umami is triggered by the compounds in a variety of foods, including beef and black olives. Participants in a study tasted a sample of winged kelp, a type of brown seaweed. They rated its umami intensity as moderate. The participants tasted a sample of rausu-konbu, another type of brown seaweed. They rated its umami intensity as high.
A. While winged kelp and rausu-konbu contain umami flavor, umami can also be found in beef and black olives.
B. Winged kelp is a type of brown seaweed, but so is rausu-konbu.
C. After tasting two types of brown seaweed, winged kelp and rausu-konbu, participants in a study found rausu-konbu's umami flavor to be the more intense of the two.
D. Some types of brown seaweed, like winged kelp and rausu-konbu, trigger umami flavor in human taste buds.

1207. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Continental Divide Electric Cooperative and other member-owned rural electric cooperatives can be ______ the other main types of US electrical utilities by their chosen governance models. Although public power utilities are, like cooperatives, not-for-profit enterprises, they are owned and run by local governments; investorowned utilities, meanwhile, are managed by private boards for the benefit of shareholders. A. protected against B. established by C. distinguished from D. integrated with

1208. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? People who are ______ about art in public settings will thoroughly enjoy strolling Chicago's streets, where they can admire works ranging from Anish Kapoor's sculpture Cloud Gate, found at Millennium Park, to street artist Cara Feeney's mural Community Mural on West Ardmore Avenue. A. overt B. perplexed C. avid D. unenthusiastic

1209. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? British colonies in North America instituted laws regulating textiles and accessories as well as the colors and design of clothing. While the laws exerted some influence on public-facing displays, compliance was often merely ______: historical evidence suggests that some restricted items were privately used and exchanged. A. clandestine B. superficial C. subversive D. theoretical

1210. Which choice best states the main purpose of the text?
Before biologist Carl Woese's mid-1970s study of methanogens (microbes, such as Methanomicrobium mobile, that metabolize hydrogen and carbon dioxide in environments without oxygen, producing methane as a by-product), living organisms were categorized as either eukaryotic (having cells with nuclei) or prokaryotic (having no nuclei). However, Woese found that the methanogens he examined had some unique characteristics shared by neither prokaryotes nor eukaryotes, as well as some characteristics in common with both. Perhaps, Woese thought, he had identified a third domain of life.
A. To explain how a particular group of life-forms can thrive in an extremely hostile environment
B. To describe what led a researcher to arrive at a particular conclusion about a group of life-forms
C. To identify the differences between three varieties of life-forms
D. To illustrate how a groundbreaking method of categorizing life-forms came to be accepted

1213. Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
Thermal technologies have been used in the food industry for over 100 years, providing a way of preserving food in large batches. Recent advancements in microwave heating were made through research in Mexico on the preservation of mamey sapote fruits. Microwave heating is generally considered an improvement over more conventional thermal preservation methods: whereas conventional methods transfer energy from the surface of a food to its interior, microwave heating uses electromagnetic waves to generate heat within the food itself.
A. Transferring energy from a food's surface to its interior may represent an improvement over conventional thermal preservation methods.
B. Microwave heating is a thermal preservation technology with concrete advantages over other methods.
C. There are possible flaws in microwave heating technologies that have not yet been well researched.
D. Much of the research into microwave heating has been conducted in Mexico.

1214. Based on the text, how does the vantage point from the tree affect Cosimo's experience?
The following text is from Archibald Colquhoun's translation of Italo Calvino's 1957 novel The Baron in the Trees. Cosimo is sitting high in the branches of a large oak tree outside his family's home.
From the tree Cosimo looked at the world; everything seen from up there was different, which was fun in itself. The alley took on a new aspect, and so did the flower beds, the hortensias, the camellias, the iron table for coffee in the garden. Farther away, the tops of the trees thinned out and the kitchen garden merged into little terraced fields propped by stone walls; the middle ground was dark with olive trees, and beyond that the village of Ombrosa thrust up roofs of slate and faded brick, and down at the port ships' masts.
©1957 by Giulio Einaudi Editore, S.p.A. Translation ©1959 by William Collins Sons & Co. Ltd.
A. It draws Cosimo's attention toward the natural surroundings and away from details of the village.
B. It reveals areas of the village that Cosimo hasn't seen before.
C. It causes Cosimo to temporarily misidentify familiar objects in his surroundings.
D. It contributes a certain novelty to various familiar scenes within Cosimo's view.

1215. Of the moons listed in the table, which has the smallest diameter?

Diameters of Three of Jupiter's Moons

Moon Diameter (km)

Europa

3,122

Himalia

160

Lysithea

38

As of 2023, astronomers have found 95 moons orbiting Jupiter. These moons vary a lot in size, from very large to very small.

A. Lysithea

B. Tethys

C. Himalia

D. Mimas

1217. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Quasars--such as CID-42, located in the Sextans constellation--are extremely luminous galactic nuclei powered by supermassive black holes, some of which are known to have developed within the first billion years of the formation of the universe. Based on simulations they conducted, astrophysicists Daniel Whalen, Muhammad Latif, and colleagues concluded that these early quasars developed partly as a result of rare convergences of gases. Rather than producing stars, some of these gas clouds accumulated so much mass that they collapsed in on themselves, creating primordial quasars. If this conclusion is correct, it suggests that ______
A. quasars formed more than approximately one billion years after the formation of the universe should be less massive than quasars formed earlier.
B. in the early universe, clouds of converging gases tended to accumulate so much mass that they could not maintain their structures.
C. gases with relatively high masses converged with other gases more often than did gases with relatively low masses.
D. mass played a critical role in determining if these clouds of gases would coalesce into stars or become quasars.

1218. Which choice most logically completes the text?
In recent years, architects have heightened their focus on developing eco-conscious and sustainable buildings, as exemplified by Thorncrown Chapel, a structure conceived by E. Fay Jones. One way to accomplish this goal is through biophilic design, which seeks to augment occupants' emotional and physical well-being by establishing a coherent relationship among the building, nature, and human biology. Along with using ecologically sensitive construction materials, biophilic designs incorporate organic or biomorphic forms and textures. Curves, therefore, are common design features because they ______
A. prioritize practicality over the personal aesthetic preferences of the architect.
B. are common in building designs in many different regions and cultures.
C. are reminiscent of the arcing and contours found among plants and animals.
D. emphasize the aesthetic distinction between nature and architecture.

1220. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The film Stellar is a feature-length romance released in 2022. It ______ directed by Anishinaabe filmmaker Darlene Naponse. A. were B. have been C. was D. are

1221. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When Christopher Murray Grieve published the poetry collection Sangschaw in 1925, Grieve's name didn't actually appear on the book's cover. That's because Grieve chose ______ a pen name: Hugh MacDiarmid. A. used B. will use C. use D. to use

1222. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? There are different types of desert around the world, classified largely by their temperature and the amount of precipitation they ______ example, the Syrian Desert in western Asia is an arid desert, the Patagonian Desert in South America is a semiarid desert, and the Namib Desert in southern Africa is a coastal desert. A. receive, for B. receive and for C. receive for D. receive. For

1223. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The moth Elachista ______ is just one of the many animal species whose names were inspired by the works of fantasy novelist J.R.R. Tolkien. A. dagnirella, which is named after the fictional character Dagnir, B. dagnirella which is named after the fictional character, Dagnir, C. dagnirella, which is named after the fictional character Dagnir D. dagnirella which is named after the fictional character Dagnir,

1224. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? One might assume that when mathematician and scholar Charles Babbage joined with 55 other renowned British writers in 1837 to petition the US Congress for copyright ______ prestige of the signatories and strength of their arguments in defense of writers' "reputation and property" would prompt swift reform, but this reform did not occur until the International Copyright Act of 1891 was passed over a half century later. A. protection and the B. protection, the C. protection, so the D. protection. The

1225. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Just as the state of Hawaii has a designated state flower, tree, and bird, it also has a state soil: Hilo soil. Hilo is a fitting choice for state soil, in large part because it can be found in abundance across the state. ______ it plays an important role in Hawaii's agricultural industry and is used to grow a variety of crops, like ginger and taro. A. Conversely, B. Alternatively, C. At that time, D. Furthermore,

1226. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Ursula K. Le Guin's The Word for World Is Forest, a novel about a colony of humans conquering a forested planet, is classified as science fiction. ______ the novel The Tombs of Atuan, which is about a priestess seeking control over her destiny, is classified as fantasy. A. In other words, B. On the other hand, C. For example, D. Afterward,

1227. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The architects of Spain's Modernista movement took inspiration from the natural world when adding finishing touches to their buildings. ______ they favored plantand animal-inspired design flourishes, like the ornate floral tilework of Hospital de Sant Pau, a hospital by architect Lluís Domènech i Montaner. A. In particular, B. Even so, C. Meanwhile, D. On the contrary,

1228. The student wants to emphasize a difference between the two bird species. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The waved albatross is a species of bird found in the Galápagos Islands. It has an average weight of 3,800 grams. The little vermilion flycatcher is a species of bird found in the Galápagos Islands. It has an average weight of 12 grams.
A. The little vermilion flycatcher and the waved albatross are both bird species.
B. On average, the waved albatross weighs 3,800 grams, while the little vermilion flycatcher weighs only 12 grams.
C. The waved albatross is a bird with an average weight of 3,800 grams.
D. The little vermilion flycatcher and the waved albatross can be found in the Galápagos Islands.

1351. As used in the text, what does the word "kinds" most nearly mean? The following text is from Charlotte Perkins Gilman's 1911 nonfiction work The Man-Made World: Or, Our Androcentric Culture.
The family is older than humanity, and therefore cannot be called a human institution. A post office, now, is wholly human; no other creature has a post office, but there are families in plenty among birds and beasts; all kinds permanent and transient; monogamous, polygamous and polyandrous. A. Compliments B. Temperaments C. Types D. Corrections

1352. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Photographer Taiwo Aina (Yoruba) is able to reach a wider audience than she otherwise might thanks to the organization Indigenous Photograph, which ______ the work of Indigenous visual storytellers by maintaining an extensive global database of images by members of the organization. A. predicts B. convinces C. conceals D. supports

1353. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? A team of microbiologists measured surface temperatures of various wild mushrooms, including Marasmius capillaris and a species from the genus Cantharellus. The temperatures ranged from 1.4 to 5.9°C lower than the temperature of the surrounding air, a difference the team ______ to water evaporating from the mushrooms and thus cooling them. A. prescribed B. attributed C. amended D. conceded

1354. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Novel chemical elements, such as seaborgium (Sg), are synthesized through reactions among existing chemical compounds. Guillermo Restrepo notes that while the orderly framework of the periodic table of the elements guides experimental chemists toward viable combinations of such compounds, unstructured exploration can be just as ______: valuable discoveries have been made by chance. A. fruitful B. prescient C. accessible D. genuine

1355. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Scleractinian corals--stony ones like lettuce leaf corals and rice corals--are habitat builders that form the foundations of coral reef ecosystems, typically with multiple species creating a single reef. The ______ of a reef depends in large part on this redundancy, which reduces the risk of a vital function ceasing if one of the species should succumb to a vulnerability. A. versatility B. conformity C. distribution D. resiliency

1356. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
Pakistan's Indus River is one of the rare places on Earth where one can witness a massive wall of water travel against the normal direction of a river's current. This wave, the Indus River Bore, is a spectacular example of a tidal bore. Bores tend to form on rivers that empty into broad, shallow bodies of water with exceptionally high tides. The Indus River Bore arises when the highest tides of the Indus River Delta push water into the Indus River. The incoming tide builds in height as it moves into the narrow mouth of the river, forming a powerful wave that travels upstream for great distances.
A. It summarizes an established theory regarding a natural phenomenon, then suggests an alternative explanation for its occurrence.
B. It introduces a natural phenomenon by describing a specific occurrence of it, then explains the physical process underlying that occurrence.
C. It establishes the uniqueness of a natural phenomenon, then describes conditions that may cause it to occur more frequently.
D. It identifies a relevant context for researching a natural phenomenon, then acknowledges the limitations of that context.

1357. Based on the texts, the author of Text 1 would most likely agree with the author of Text 2 on which point?
Text 1
The director of the film The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, David Fincher, started out directing music videos such as the one for Jody Watley's song "Most of All," and the influence of that early work can be seen in the film's remarkable visual style, as well as that of Fincher's other films.

Text 2 Several film directors such as David Fincher, Mark Romanek, and Tarsem Singh began their careers by directing music videos. Of those, Fincher has been by far the most successful as a film director, largely due to his extraordinary visual style. A. David Fincher's work has an impressive visual style. B. The Curious Case of Benjamin Button is one of David Fincher's least engaging films. C. Mark Romanek and Tarsem Singh are more successful directors than David Fincher. D. David Fincher's music videos are more entertaining than his films.

1358. Based on the text, which choice best describes the interaction between Dr. Gresham and Col. Robinson?
The following text is from Frances E.W. Harper's 1892 novel Iola Leroy. In the text, Doctor Gresham and Colonel Robinson discuss Iola Leroy, a nurse in the army hospital.
"Colonel," said Dr. Gresham to Col. Robinson, the commander of the post, "I am perfectly mystified by Miss Leroy."
"What is the matter with her?" asked Col. Robinson. "Is she not faithful to her duties and obedient to your directions?"
"Faithful is not the word to express her tireless energy and devotion to her work," responded Dr. Gresham. "She must have been a born nurse to put such enthusiasm into her work."
A. Col. Robinson interprets Dr. Gresham's comment about Miss Leroy as being more positive than it is intended to be, but Dr. Gresham corrects his misinterpretation.
B. Col. Robinson complains about the quality of Miss Leroy's work, but Dr. Gresham disputes Col. Robinson's characterization.
C. Col. Robinson thinks that Dr. Gresham's remark about being mystified by Miss Leroy is motivated by her work performance, but actually Dr. Gresham is remarking on her personality outside of work.
D. Col. Robinson thinks that Dr. Gresham's expression of surprise about Miss Leroy is a sign of dissatisfaction, but actually Dr. Gresham is amazed by how dedicated Miss Leroy is to her work.

1359. Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
While farming and poetry might seem like disparate pursuits, a unique tradition in some rural communities connects them, as exemplified by Robert Frost, who wrote "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening" while working at his farm. In communities where this connection continues, farmers gather to share writing derived from their agricultural work and connection to the land. For these farmers, their daily tasks can provide both inspiration and a contemplative space for writing. As one such farmer-poet reflects, "Tending the earth engages my hands but frees my thoughts, creating a fertile ground for creativity."
A. Robert Frost established a tradition of farmers using poetry to document agricultural practices.
B. The solitude and beauty of rural landscapes provide the primary inspiration for farmer-poets.
C. Agricultural work and poetic expression can be complementary pursuits.
D. Robert Frost's "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening" continues to inspire farmer-poets today.

1361. Assuming the data in the table are broadly representative, do the data support the researcher's hypothesis as presented in the text?

Average Frontation Angle for Five Species, by Family, Habitat, and Preferred Substrate

Species

Family Habitat Preferred substrate Frontation angle (°)

Vulpes lagopus

Canidae open terrestrial

54.89

Nyctereutes procyonoides Canidae closed arboreal

56.51

Lynx lynx

Felidae closed terrestrial

65.67

Leptailurus serval

Felidae open terrestrial

65.80

Leopardus wiedii

Felidae closed arboreal

67.61

By examining trait distributions across phylogenetic lineages, evolutionary biologists can determine whether trait similarities result from shared ancestry, leading to consistent presence of the trait among closely related species, or from convergent evolution under similar selective pressures, leading to the independent appearance of the trait in more distantly related species occupying similar ecological niches. Hypothesizing that orbit (eye socket) orientation in the families Canidae and Felidae (both within the order Carnivora) is primarily driven by the latter mechanism, a researcher measured frontation angles--the extent to which orbits face downward or upward--in felid and canid species occupying various habitats and preferring different substrates.

A. Yes, because frontation angles show a moderately strong relationship with ecological niches, with two out of the three species with the highest frontation angles either inhabiting closed habitats or preferring terrestrial substrates

B. Yes, because frontation angles are lower for canid species than for felid species regardless of habitat or preferred substrate, with values for species from the same taxonomic family clustering in a relatively narrow range

C. No, because frontation angles cluster by taxonomic family rather than by ecological categories, with similar values measured for species from the same family despite their occupation of different ecological niches

D. No, because frontation angles are relatively consistent across ecological categories, with values for species inhabiting closed arboreal habitats and species inhabiting open terrestrial habitats ranging from 56.51 to 67.61 and from 54.89 to 65.80, respectively

1364. Which choice most logically completes the text?
The state of Ohio has designated the three-spined stickleback as an invasive species that could harm some of the state's native species. But researchers Alejandro Camacho and Jason McLachlan have pointed out that Earth's climate is changing in ways that challenge such designations. Climate changes may force animals from their current ranges. Climate changes may also create good habitats in areas where a species couldn't live previously. In the case of Ohio, these observations suggest that ______
A. it's useful at present for the state to distinguish between invasive and native species in some instances but not in the case of the three-spined stickleback.
B. even if Earth's climate doesn't change in the way scientists predict, the three-spined stickleback will likely establish itself in the state.
C. the state was previously home to some three-spined sticklebacks but they were outcompeted by invading species.
D. the state's classification of the three-spined stickleback as an invasive species may describe a temporary situation rather than a permanent one.

1366. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The Winter Room was written by Gary Paulsen. The book ______ about a boy who learns about his family's history on a Minnesota farm. A. is B. have been C. are D. were

1368. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When attempting to determine a fault's seismic history, geophysicists like Dr. Estella Atekwana at the University of Delaware rely in part on data related ______ the fault's physical dimensions and geological features. For example, data from the US Geological Survey show the length (30 km), slip rate (less than 0.2 mm/yr), and most recent deformation (less than 15 thousand years ago) of the Big Flat fault in Gem County, Idaho. A. to; B. to, C. to D. to:

1371. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Many works of the Greek dramatist Euripides (5th century BCE) are ______ his Cyclops, a satyr play, is an extant work: it can still be read. A. lost and conversely, B. lost. Conversely, C. lost, and conversely D. lost, conversely,

1500. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Prose poetry, a form that combines the continuous text of prose with the condensed language and imagery of poetry--as exemplified in Claudia Rankine's "Coherence in Consequence"--is characterized by significant ______ how poets balance these elements. While some prose poems prominently feature conventional poetic devices, such as figures of speech, others embrace a more prosaic aesthetic. A. hesitance in B. latitude in C. insight into D. inquiry into

1511. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Participants in a musical-perception study assigned high groove ratings (defined as the degree to which one wants to move to a song) to Earth, Wind & Fire's "Boogie Wonderland." In another study, participants assigned similarly high groove ratings to the Brazilian samba song "Desafinado." If, as some contend, the human experience of groove depends on the ability to "find the pulse" (intuit the regular underlying rhythm) of a song, that would suggest that participants in these two studies tended to ______
A. perceive their respective songs as rhythmically complex.
B. find the pulses of their respective songs easily.
C. experience little desire to move to their respective songs.
D. rate the pulses of their respective songs rather than the grooves.

1515. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When Ricardo Neftalí Reyes Basoalto published the poetry collection Crepusculario in 1923, Basoalto's name didn't actually appear on the book's cover. That's because Basoalto chose ______ a pen name: Pablo Neruda. A. used B. to use C. will use D. use

1517. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The true bug Tamolia ______ is just one of the many animal species whose names were inspired by the works of fantasy novelist J.R.R. Tolkien. A. ancalagon which is named after the notorious literary dragon, Ancalagon, B. ancalagon, which is named after the notorious literary dragon Ancalagon C. ancalagon, which is named after the notorious literary dragon Ancalagon, D. ancalagon which is named after the notorious literary dragon Ancalagon,

1660. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the congressional candidate Cecelia Cudahy Casserly was honored by having Cecilia Street named ______ her. A. after; B. after C. after: D. after,

1661. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The film Une Fille Étrange is a short drama released in 2022. It ______ directed by Seneca filmmaker ZsaZsa K. A. have been B. are C. were D. was

1795. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? In his experimental film Koyaanisqatsi (1982), Godfrey Reggio manipulates shots to accord with Philip Glass's original score, variously applying slow-motion and timelapse techniques to shots of commuters and rhythmically intercutting between the movement of water and the flow of automobile traffic, among other pairings, to create ______ images and music. A. a hierarchy among B. a mystery from C. an exaggeration of D. a consonance between

1798. Which choice best states the main purpose of the text? Claudine Mukesharugo, a tea producer in Rwanda, and Vinicio Gonzales, a coffee grower in Guatemala, are both part of a global community of small farmers who partner with the grassroots organization Thrive Farmers. Their partnership with the organization is based on a revenue-sharing model that puts the farmers at the forefront. With this model, farmers aren't just supplying initial crops but are stakeholders through the sale of the finished products. A. To describe how a partnership between two farms that produce different types of crops led to the development of a new business model for small farmers B. To introduce the idea that around the world, small farmers have increasingly been managing their farms as if they were large businesses C. To suggest that the Thrive Farmers organization is generating greater global demand for crops grown by small farmers D. To explain that some small farmers follow a business model that allows them to have greater involvement in the sale of products made with their crops

1810. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Exercising Dogs on Watling Street is an oil painting by Sonia Lawson, a British artist. Lawson created ______ in 1979. A. them B. it C. those D. these

1942. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The dinosaur displays at museums such as the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago (which has a mounted Apatosaurus skeleton among its holdings) are notable for the ______ of the research behind them--the museum staff consulted numerous sources to ensure the accuracy of the displays. A. rigor B. obscurity C. shallowness D. novelty

1947. Based on the text, what can be concluded about clothing made during the Ice Age?
Ian Gilligan et al. claim that during the Ice Age, humans at Yafteh Cave in Southwest Asia made fitted clothing by boring holes in pieces of hide and fur with a sharpened bone tool called an awl and then threading cord through the holes to bind the pieces together. Eventually, as evidenced by artifacts at Ust-Kova in Siberia, someone perforated the end of a bone awl to make an eye (hole) to hold the cord, thereby creating a sewing needle with which both steps could be performed in a single motion. This sped up the process of making clothing and, by freeing them from the need to push cord through holes manually, allowed artisans to make smaller holes and thus finer seams.
A. Clothing made with awls at sites like Yafteh Cave likely had coarser seams than clothing made with needles at sites like Ust-Kova did.
B. Clothing made with awls at sites like Yafteh Cave could likely be made more quickly than clothing made with needles at sites like Ust-Kova.
C. Clothing made with awls at sites like Yafteh Cave likely had finer seams than clothing made with needles at sites like Ust-Kova did.
D. Clothing made at sites like Yafteh Cave was likely made with needles, while clothing made at sites like Ust-Kova was likely made with awls.

1949. Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researcher's claim?
A team of public transportation experts in Buffalo is creating a new light rail stop for the Buffalo Metro Rail system that will service a neighborhood in which a stop does not currently exist. To decide where to place the stop, the team is using a survey from ten years ago that asked how far neighborhood residents would be willing to walk to a light rail stop. The team also looked at studies showing that people's willingness to walk to public transit is influenced by factors like weather and the presence of well-enforced low speed limits for cars. A researcher has argued that the survey does not accurately reflect the feelings of today's residents of this neighborhood.
A. Residents of Buffalo are much less likely to use public transit on rainy days than on clear days.
B. Current users of the Buffalo Metro Rail are satisfied with the number of stops along the line.
C. There has been a sharp increase in the last ten years in cyclists who use the roads in the neighborhood that the light rail stop will service.
D. The enforcement of posted speed limits in the neighborhood that the light rail stop will service has increased substantially in the last ten years.

1954. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the school principal Cyrene Reynolds was honored by having Graynold Avenue named ______ her. A. after: B. after; C. after, D. after

1955. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? China Doll is a 2005 play by Elizabeth Wong. ______ play was first performed at the West End Theater in New York City. A. It B. This C. Those D. These

1959. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Sara Ruane is a biologist at Rutgers ______ conducts research on snakes. A. University, she B. University. Where she C. University she D. University. She

1961. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Though its onboard laboratory allowed it to analyze rock samples on-site, the 2011 Mars Curiosity rover was unable to preserve samples for future analysis. ______ when creating the 2020 Mars Perseverance rover, payload thermal engineering lead Evan Valdes and other members of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory sought to implement a mechanism that could do exactly that. A. Hence, B. Specifically, C. Earlier, D. Similarly,

1964. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize Edison's reliance on Kruesi?
Thomas Edison is regarded as one of the most important inventors in US history. Having received little formal schooling, Edison relied on specialist employees at his various laboratories and offices to complete the technical work for many of

his inventions. John Kruesi was a machinist who worked at Edison Machine Works. He is best known for leading the installation of underground electricity distribution cables for the Edison Electric Tube Company. Edward Goodrich Acheson was a chemist who worked at the Menlo Park laboratory. He is best known for inventing the Acheson process for synthesizing silicon carbide and graphite.
A. Having received little formal education, Thomas Edison depended on specialized employees, including machinist John Kruesi, for many of his inventions.
B. John Kruesi, a machinist, worked at Edison Machine Works.
C. Most of Thomas Edison's employees had successful careers independent of working for him; for example, John Kruesi, who worked at Edison Machine Works, was an accomplished machinist.
D. John Kruesi, a machinist, was known for his valuable contribution to the field of technology.

1965. The student wants to provide a historical overview of the Shackleton expedition. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
1914: British explorer Ernest Shackleton and a small crew embarked on an expedition to Antarctica. 1915: Shackleton's ship Endurance became stuck in ice before eventually breaking apart and sinking. 1916: After more harrowing sea-ice adventures, the entire crew was rescued. 1959: Historian Alfred Lansing wrote a book called Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage. 2001: Filmmaker George Butler released a documentary called The Endurance: Shackleton's Legendary Antarctic Expedition. 2022: The wreckage of Endurance was discovered at the bottom of Antarctica's Weddell Sea.
A. Shackleton's expedition has inspired a 1959 book, a 2001 film, and a 2022 discovery.
B. In 1914, the Shackleton expedition sailed to Antarctica, where, in 1916, they rescued the crew of a ship that had sunk, Endurance (the wreckage of which was discovered in 2022).
C. Leaving in 1914 for Antarctica, Shackleton and his crew underwent many harrowing sea-ice adventures, including losing their ship in 1915, before being rescued in 1916.
D. Alfred Lansing wrote about the history of Shackleton's 1914-16 expedition in the book Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage (1959); years later, in 2001, George Butler released a documentary about the expedition.

2092. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? The following text is from Yung Wing's 1909 memoir My Life in China and America. Yung Wing was the first person from China to graduate from a US university.
Little did I realize when in 1845 I wrote, while in the Morrison School, a composition on "An Imaginary Voyage to New York and up the Hudson," that I was to see New York in reality. This incident leads me to the reflection that sometimes our imagination foreshadows what lies uppermost in our minds and brings possibilities within the sphere of realities. A. It foreshadows Yung's future difficulties in publishing his writings. B. It indicates Yung's unwillingness to distinguish between reality and fantasy as a child. C. It illustrates the sense of adventure that Yung developed as a child. D. It describes an event in Yung's life that exemplifies a phenomenon.

2099. Which finding, if true, would most directly support Núñez and colleagues' claim?
Rafael Núñez and colleagues studied how members of the Yupno, an Indigenous group in Papua New Guinea, conceptualize time in both spoken language and gestures. The researchers recorded Yupno speakers explaining certain temporal words and phrases, such as abjuk, a present-oriented expression that translates to "now," and coded each speaker's manual gestures. Previous research has found a tendency in many cultures to make temporal distinctions along imagined linear axes: for instance, English speakers often refer to the front/back axis to describe events in time. Some researchers believe this tendency is universal, but Núñez and colleagues claim this is not the case.
A. Yupno speakers were observed making temporal gestures both indoors and outdoors, though with greater frequency when indoors.
B. Future-oriented gestures used by Yupno speakers do not, on average, point in the opposite linear direction of past-oriented gestures.
C. Some Yupno grammatical structures used when talking about time are also used in English.
D. Yupno speakers typically use their left hand to make temporal gestures regardless of whether the gestures are past oriented or future oriented.

2102. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the landowner Arcadia Bandini de Baker was honored by having Arcadia Street named ______ her. A. after: B. after, C. after; D. after

2104. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Two Cats is a lithograph by Agenore Fabbri, an Italian artist. Fabbri created ______ in 1950. A. those B. it C. these D. them

2105. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? As a behavioral economist, Muriel Niederle of Stanford University explores how psychological factors (such as emotion and bias) influence the economic choices that individuals ______ Niederle's research considers the broader effects these choices have on the economy. A. make, moreover; B. make, moreover, C. make; moreover, D. make, moreover.

2106. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Kristen Lear is a biologist at the University of ______ conducts research on bats. A. Georgia, she B. Georgia. Where she C. Georgia. She D. Georgia she

Correlation

2242. The information in the text and the graph best supports which conclusion about the data sets used in Wang et al.'s study?
Correlations Between Length-of-Season Estimates from GPP and SIF Data Sets 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 -0.1 FLUXNETFLUXCOM RF-GPP
SIF data set A SIF data set D SIF data set F
Gross primary productivity (GPP), the rate of carbon fixation by plants during photosynthesis, is typically inferred from carbon flux observations. Since seasonal onset and cessation of photosynthesis correspond with changes in GPP, GPP data sets derived from carbon flux observations, including FLUXNET, FLUXCOM, and RF-GPP, can be used to estimate growing-season length. In a study exploring the use of another proxy for photosynthesis--solar-induced chlorophyll fluorescence (SIF), solar radiation reemitted by plants that can be detected via satellite--to determine growing-season length, Zhe Wang et al. calculated correlations between estimates from several SIF data sets (a sample of which are represented in the graph) and estimates from GPP data sets (values closer to 0 indicate weaker correlations).
A. The stronger correlations between all three SIF data sets and the FLUXCOM and RF-GPP data sets relative to those between all three SIF data sets and FLUXNET suggest that FLUXCOM and RF-GPP enable more accurate estimates of growing-season length than FLUXNET does.
B. In comparison to the more limited range of FLUXNET values, the greater range between the highest and lowest FLUXCOM values suggests that FLUXCOM-derived estimates of growing-season length vary more widely than FLUXNET-derived estimates do.
C. Length-of-season estimates derived from RF-GPP data were generally more similar to those derived from FLUXCOM data than they were to those derived from FLUXNET data.
D. The weaker correlations between SIF data set F and all three GPP data sets relative to those of the other SIF data sets suggest that data set F systematically underestimates the length of the growing season.

2245. Based on the information in the text and table, is the tour guide's claim supported?

Percent Change in Stopover Visits from Canada (2024 to 2025)

Location Q1 2024 Q1 2025 Change (%)

Anguilla

720

773

7.4

Cayman Islands 11,409 12,374

8.5

Cuba

399,254 272,274 -31.8

Curaçao

15,716 17,941

14.2

Mexico

784,150 822,538 4.9

In terms of tourism, a "stopover" is a stay of at least one night in a location while on the way to another location for either personal or business travel. A tour guide finds a table of records of stopover visits by Canadians in January-March (Q1) of 2024 and of 2025. The tour guide claims that out of the listed locations, Cuba experienced the greatest decrease in such visits by people who were traveling for personal reasons but was still a very popular stop in both periods.

A. Yes, because the table shows that Cuba had the second highest total number of stopover visits from Canada in both Q1 2024 and Q1 2025

B. No, because even though the table shows that Cuba had high numbers of stopover visits from Canada in both periods, that total was several hundred thousand lower than Mexico's peak in those periods

C. No, because even though the table shows that Cuba had more total stopover visits from Canada than most other locations did in both periods, it doesn't show numbers by type of travel

D. Yes, because the table shows that the percent change in stopover visits from Canada to Cuba between the two periods was negative, indicating a decline in totals for both types of travel

2249. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The film Lily Gladstone: Far Out There is a short documentary released in 2019. It ______ directed by Blackfeet and Salish filmmaker Brooke Pepion Swaney. A. was B. were C. have been D. are

2393. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Animals Out of Paper is a 2008 play by Rajiv Joseph. ______ play was first performed at the McGinn/Cazale Theater in New York City. A. These B. This C. It D. Those
Answer: B

2396. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Still Life with Three Puppies is a painting by Paul Gauguin, a French artist. Gauguin created ______ in 1888. A. those B. it C. them D. these
Answer: B

2398. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Julia Saltz is a biologist at Rice ______ conducts research on animal behaviors. A. University. She B. University she C. University, she D. University. Where she
Answer: A

2403. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to explain the 50 Completers hiking challenge to a new audience?
The Highpointers Club is a hiking club. One of the main goals among club members is to reach the highest points in all fifty US states. Those who achieve this are called 50 Completers. In Suk Han became a 50 Completer on November 15, 2013. The highest point in West Virginia is Spruce Knob, at 4,863 ft. The highest point in Colorado is Mount Elbert, at 14,440 ft.
A. Hikers aiming to count themselves among the 50 Completers must reach not only West Virginia's Spruce Knob but also the even higher peak of Mount Elbert in Colorado.
B. Not until after you have reached the highest points in all fifty US states--including Spruce Knob in West Virginia and Mount Elbert in Colorado--can you include yourself among the 50 Completers of the Highpointers Club.
C. If you are looking for a new hiking challenge, consider joining the Highpointers Club, as did In Suk Han, a hiker who successfully reached the highest point in every US state.
D. On November 15, 2013, In Suk Han finally completed the feat of reaching the highest point in all fifty US states, including Spruce Knob in West Virginia and Mount Elbert in Colorado.
Answer: B

2404. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to introduce Marie Hall to a new audience? Antonio Stradivari (1644-1737) was an Italian instrument maker. He made about 1,000 violins in his lifetime. Musicians prize his Stradivarius violins for their famed sound quality. The Marie Hall Stradivarius is named for former owner Marie Hall, a British violinist.
A. The Marie Hall Stradivarius is named after Marie Hall. B. Of the 1,000 or so violins Antonio Stradivari made, only about 500 exist today. C. Marie Hall was a British violinist who once owned a Stradivarius violin. D. Born in 1644, Antonio Stradivari was an Italian instrument maker whose violins are famous for their quality.
Answer: C

2529. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The National Heritage Fellowship was created to honor exceptional folk and traditional artists in the United States. In 2013, the fellowship was given to the Pyramid Lake Paiute storyteller Ralph Burns to ______ his lifetime contributions to the arts. A. investigate B. discover C. choose D. celebrate
Answer: D

2539. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Highest Major Summits in India

Summit Elevation (meters) Mountain range Prominence (meters)

Kangto

7,060

Assam Himalaya

2,195

Saser Kangri III

7,495

Saser Karakoram

850

Langpo

6,965

Sikkim Himalaya

560

Sri Kailash

6,932

Garhwal Himalaya

1,092

Mount Lakshmi

6,983

Rimo Karakoram

800

Mountain summits are often described in terms of their elevation, or height above sea level. But a summit's elevation may not be as good an indication of how high the mountain appears to observers as is the summit's prominence, or its height above its surroundings, and these values can differ significantly. For example, the Indian mountain of ______

A. Saser Kangri III has an elevation of 7,495 meters but a considerably lower prominence of 850 meters.

B. Kangto has a much higher prominence than does Langpo.

C. Kangto has a high prominence but is from a different mountain range than Mount Lakshmi, which has a lower prominence.

D. Sri Kailash has an elevation of 6,932 meters and is considered the highest mountain from the Garhwal Himalaya range.

Answer: A

2541. Which choice most logically completes the text?
British professional soccer team Manchester United Football Club, whose home uniform color is mainly red, won more than half its home matches between 1947 and 2003. This is a higher proportion of home matches than Watford Football Club, whose home uniform color is not red, won during the same period. According to a study by Martin J. Attrill and colleagues, the color red can cause people to respond with fear and hesitation, which the researchers think helps explain Manchester United's success. Nadav Goldschmied and colleagues reanalyzed the published data from this study, however, and found no evidence that red-uniformed teams are more likely than other teams to win, suggesting that Manchester United's red uniforms ______
A. negatively affected the performance of Manchester United's opponents.
B. made the Manchester United players more nervous than they would have been if their uniforms had not been red.
C. did not affect the fans' satisfaction with Manchester United's performance.
D. did not provide Manchester United with any significant advantage.
Answer: D

2542. Which choice most logically completes the text? Pablo Picasso famously subverted the norms of traditional painting: in his cubist paintings he refused to let his expression be constrained, fragmenting objects and figures to present multiple perspectives simultaneously. Though less widely known, Picasso--who once lamented that writers of his time had "limited themselves to moving around words somewhat while respecting the syntax"--also wrote poetry that defied conventional grammar, semantic relationships, and text structure. Thus, the paintings and poems are linked in that ______ A. the poems are intended to be understood as explanations of the artistic inclinations reflected in the paintings. B. both types of work are characterized by the simultaneous representation of multiple points of view that Picasso is known for. C. the poems present many of the same subjects as the paintings but with different thematic approaches. D. both exhibit Picasso's prioritization of creative expression over the standard rules of the art forms.
Answer: D

2545. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Daily News is an oil painting by Dona Nelson, an American artist. Nelson created ______ in 1983. A. these B. it C. those D. them
Answer: B

2547. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Edwige Moyroud is a biologist at the University of ______ conducts research on plants. A. Cambridge, she B. Cambridge she C. Cambridge. She D. Cambridge. Where she
Answer: C

2548. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The early Australian railroad system of the 1800s was famously uncoordinated. Trains on the broad gauge Victorian Goldfields Railway line in Victoria couldn't travel on the Ballyhooley Steam Railway in Queensland, which used narrow gauge tracks, without performing time-consuming conversions. ______ historians refer to this complicated system as the "mixed gauge muddle." A. For example, B. Hence, C. Rather, D. Likewise,
Answer: B

2690. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the school principal Rose Bushnell was honored by having Bushnell Way named ______ her. A. after B. after; C. after, D. after:
Answer: A

2692. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Roger & Steve, London is a photograph by Sunil Gupta, an Indian Canadian artist. Gupta created ______ in 1984. A. these B. it C. them D. those
Answer: B

2823. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Whatever the general attitude toward Andrew L. Stone's 1943 film Stormy Weather and William Greaves's 1968 film Symbiopsychotaxiplasm, Take One when they were initially released, both films now tend to be regarded quite ______. In 2018, for example, critics for the New York Times praised the former as "[an] anthology of great performances" and the latter as "a vital artifact of its time." A. skeptically B. favorably C. strangely D. neutrally
Answer: B

2829. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? The following text is from Nathaniel Hawthorne's 1830 short story "Sir William Phips."
The knowledge, communicated by the historian and biographer, is analogous to that which we acquire of a country by the map,--minute, perhaps, and accurate, and available for all necessary purposes, but cold and naked, and wholly destitute of the mimic charm produced by landscape painting. These defects are partly remediable, and even without an absolute violation of literal truth, although by methods rightfully interdicted to professors of biographical exactness. A. Paintings may be more beautiful than maps, but maps are more useful than paintings. B. The more famous a person is, the more likely that person is to attract the attention of a historian. C. Historians' fidelity to the truth often results in work that is less engaging than it could be. D. Biographers are more-skilled writers than other kinds of historians.
Answer: C

2837. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the osteopath Effie Baxter was honored by having Effie Street named ______ her. A. after: B. after, C. after; D. after
Answer: D

2841. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? First Lieutenant Jose Torres Caban was a soldier in the United States 65th Infantry Regiment, a Puerto Rico-based regiment of the US Army. In 2016, the United States Congress honored Torres Caban and the other servicepeople of the 65th Infantry Regiment with one of its highest ______ Congressional Gold Medal. A. honors: the B. honors the C. honors (the D. honors; the
Answer: A

2972. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? Movies based on well-known books are often commercial successes: when the two widely read novels The Joy Luck Club and Sense and Sensibility were turned into motion pictures, people flocked to theaters to see them. Investigating whether adapting a book into a movie also affects the original book's popularity, researchers collected statistics from online platforms for The Monuments Men and two other books that have been adapted for the screen. They found that the movies' release dates coincided with increased interest in the books. A. It provides specific examples that support the claim made earlier in the sentence. B. It points out that a general rule mentioned earlier in the sentence has some exceptions. C. It sets up a contrast between two artistic forms that is further explored in the next two sentences. D. It states a common belief that is disproved by the research findings detailed in the next two sentences.
Answer: A

2987. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? As anthropologist Cristina Grasseni explains, many artisanal cheeses in Italy, such as Provolone Valpadana from Trentino-Alto Adige and Ragusano from Sicily, are highly valued for their regional authenticity; ______ they are prized for being made using local ingredients and methods typical of their respective geographic regions. A. rather, B. that is, C. then, D. still,
Answer: B

2989. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? As volcanologists like Tamsin Mather are apt to make clear, not all volcanoes are the same. Ischia in Italy, for example, is a complex volcano, a mixed landform consisting of related volcanic centers and their associated lava flows and pyroclastic rock. Mount Vsevidof in Alaska, ______ is a stratovolcano, a conical volcano built up by many layers of hardened lava and tephra. A. in any case, B. in contrast, C. in fact, D. in conclusion,
Answer: B

2992. The student wants to explain why humans must get vitamin C from food. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Blackberries are fruits that contain ascorbic acid, an essential nutrient for humans. Every 100 grams (g) of blackberries contains 21 milligrams (mg) of ascorbic acid. Many animals can make ascorbic acid in their bodies, but humans cannot. Humans must get ascorbic acid from foods, including fruits and vegetables. Ascorbic acid is also known as vitamin C.
A. Many animals can make ascorbic acid, which is also known as vitamin C, in their bodies.
B. Blackberries contain vitamin C, which humans must get from food.
C. Since humans cannot make vitamin C in their bodies, they must get this essential nutrient from foods like blackberries.
D. There is 21 mg of vitamin C, an essential nutrient for humans, in every 100 g of blackberries.
Answer: C

3130. Which choice most logically completes the text? In a study of the effects of music tempo (as measured in beats per minute, or bpm) during exercise, participants rode a bicycle for 30 minutes while listening to Beyoncé's "Irreplaceable" (88 bpm) continuously. Researchers anticipated that when participants performed the same activity the following day while listening to Led Zeppelin's "Rock and Roll" (169 bpm), they would ride more quickly. Participants' performance on the second day, however, may have been negatively affected by tiredness from the first day. Thus, ______ A. the researchers were unable to accurately measure how quickly participants rode on the second day. B. the results from the second day may lead to an underestimation of the effect of the faster song. C. participants demonstrated a preference for one song over the other. D. participants' prior familiarity with the songs may have contributed to differences in performance over the two days.
Answer: B

3280. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Dilys Vela Diaz is a biologist at Washington ______ conducts research on tropical forests. A. University she B. University, she C. University. She D. University. Where she
Answer: C

3412. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The success of the Chicano Park murals in San Diego, California--the world's largest concentration of murals celebrating Chicano culture--exemplifies how collaborative art initiatives can ______ their communities in multiple ways, including enhancing public spaces and encouraging people from different backgrounds to work together. A. avoid B. predict C. deny D. enrich
Answer: D

3418. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Approximate Numbers of Speakers of Four Native Languages

Language

Region

Number of speakers

Tlingit Alaska Panhandle

1,240

Shoshone Great Basin and Rocky Mountains

2,000

Dakota Northern Plains and Upper Midwest

17,860

Mohawk Northeast

1,950

The Dakota language of the Northern Plains and Upper Midwest is one of the most widely spoken Native languages in what is now the continental United States, with approximately 17,860 speakers, according to a 2015 report by the US Census Bureau. Though spoken by fewer people than Dakota, the Shoshone language of the Great Basin and Rocky Mountains nonetheless has a population of speakers that numbers in the thousands. The Census Bureau report indicates that in the US, Shoshone is spoken by approximately ______

A. 2,000 people.

B. 1,240 people.

C. 17,860 people.

D. 1,950 people.

Answer: A

3425. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? On May 11, 2009, the space shuttle Atlantis blasted off into space, commencing Mission ______ twelve days and twenty-one hours, the mission ended when the shuttle landed at Edwards Air Force Base in California. A. STS-125 lasting B. STS-125. Lasting C. STS-125, lasting D. STS-125, it lasted
Answer: B

3426. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Black Cat and Tomato Plant is a woodblock print by Takahashi Hiroaki, a Japanese artist. Hiroaki created ______ in 1931. A. these B. it C. them D. those
Answer: B

3431. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The Hornbostel-Sachs system classifies musical instruments by how they produce sound. For example, an instrument that is popular in Lebanon called the darbuka produces sound primarily through the vibration of a stretched membrane. ______ under the Hornbostel-Sachs system, the darbuka is a membranophone. A. Similarly, B. Thus, C. Instead, D. Furthermore,
Answer: B

3572. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the socialite and editor Ethel Shorb was honored by having Ethel Avenue named ______ her. A. after, B. after C. after: D. after;
Answer: B

3573. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? 36 Views is a 2002 play by Naomi Iizuka. ______ play was first performed at the Berkeley Repertory Theatre in California. A. It B. Those C. These D. This
Answer: D

3711. Which quotation from Cane most effectively illustrates the claim? Cane is a 1923 novel by Jean Toomer. In the novel, Toomer mentions a road in rural Georgia called Dixie Pike and describes it as having a deep connection to a faraway place, writing, ______ A. "And when the wind is from the South, soil of my homeland falls like a fertile shower upon the lean streets of [Washington, DC]." B. "From down the railroad track, the chug-chug of a gas engine announces that the repair gang is coming home." C. "Dixie Pike is what they call it." D. "The Dixie Pike has grown from a goat path in Africa."
Answer: D

3715. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Highly Traveled Commercial Airline Routes in 2017-18

Location 1 Location 2 Distance of route (kilometers) 2018 passengers 2017 passengers Domestic or international

Hong Kong Manila

1,145

3,008,842

2,907,228 international

Jakarta Singapore

896

4,812,342

4,810,602 international

Mumbai Delhi

1,150

7,392,155

7,129,943 domestic

Mexico City Monterrey

729

3,474,971

3,202,091 domestic

A study of commercial airline routes that carried the greatest number of passengers in 2017 and 2018 shows that, in general, domestic routes (routes within a single country) carried many more passengers than international routes. However, a few international routes were so popular that they carried more travelers than some of the most highly traveled domestic routes, as can be seen when comparing the ______

A. distance between Mexico City and Monterrey with the distance between Jakarta and Singapore.

B. number of passengers who traveled between Mumbai and Delhi in 2017 with the number who traveled between Hong Kong and Manila during that same year.

C. number of passengers who traveled between Jakarta and Singapore in 2017 with the number who traveled that same route in 2018.

D. number of passengers who traveled between Jakarta and Singapore in 2018 with the number who traveled between Mexico City and Monterrey during that same year.

Answer: D

3722. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Enacted in 1814, Norway's 7,307-word constitution, in contrast to Ireland's, which was enacted in 1937 and contains a far greater number (16,007) of words, ______ as the 21st shortest in the world. Such data are studied by constitutional scholars like Dominic J. Nardi, who can use them to draw broader conclusions. A. ranks B. rank C. have ranked D. are ranking
Answer: A

3866. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the professor Dr. Jane Bancroft Robinson was honored by having Robinson Road named ______ her. A. after: B. after; C. after, D. after
Answer: D

3867. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Talk-Story is a 1992 play by Jeannie Barroga. ______ play was first performed at TheatreWorks in California. A. These B. It C. Those D. This
Answer: D

3869. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Many works of the Greek astronomer Hipparchus (2nd century BCE) are ______ his Commentary, a critique of a popular astronomical poem, is an extant work: it can still be read. A. lost. Conversely, B. lost and conversely, C. lost, and conversely D. lost, conversely,
Answer: A

3870. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Alicia Pérez-Porro is a biologist at the Smithsonian ______ conducts research on sea sponges. A. Institution. Where she B. Institution. She C. Institution she D. Institution, she
Answer: B

3874. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The Doric Hexapolis, a sea power composed of six coastal cities in Greece and Turkey that reached its height around 1000 BCE, is considered a thalassocracy--a geopolitical entity whose hegemony resulted from control of the sea rather than of land. Historians classify thalassocracies as distinct from tellurocracies, or landbased powers. ______ the Spanish Empire (1500s-1900s CE) is known for both land and sea supremacy. A. In other words, empires are classified according to their source of power: B. Of course, the distinction is not always so neat: C. For example, tellurocracies have long overpowered their rivals: D. Likewise, thalassocracies are sea-based powers:
Answer: B

4012. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When William Sydney Porter published the novel Cabbages and Kings in 1904, Porter's name didn't actually appear on the book's cover. That's because Porter chose ______ a pen name: O. Henry. A. use B. to use C. will use D. used
Answer: B

4013. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Boo and His Rabbit is a photograph by Chris Killip, a British artist. Killip created ______ in 1984. A. it B. these C. them D. those
Answer: A

4016. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? A popular literary periodical of the Victorian era, ______ whose novel The Caxtons appeared there in fourteen installments between April 1848 and October 1849. A. Blackwood's Magazine published serialized versions of novels by Edward Bulwer-Lytton and other prominent writers of the day, B. serialized versions of novels by prominent writers of the day, including Edward Bulwer-Lytton, were published in Blackwood's Magazine, C. Blackwood's Magazine published serialized versions of novels by prominent writers of the day, including Edward Bulwer-Lytton, D. prominent writers of the day published serialized versions of their novels in Blackwood's Magazine, including Edward Bulwer-Lytton,
Answer: C

4018. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In the Southeast Asian country of Vietnam, the percentage of the population living in cities rose from 33.8% to 37.3% between 2015 and 2020. ______ urbanization rates climbed across Southeast Asia as a whole, rising 2.8 percentage points in that five-year period. A. Concurrently, B. For example, C. In other words, D. Eventually,
Answer: A

4020. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Researchers in France claim that leopards and brown bears are among the twenty most "charismatic" animals (defined as "attractive, fascinating, or appealing"). To create their top-twenty list, researchers used survey data from Western Europe. European attitudes toward leopards and brown bears might not be shared around the world, ______ A. in other words. B. for example. C. of course. D. in particular.
Answer: C

4147. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? While modern composers may often get inspiration from past greats like Johann Sebastian Bach, the extent of their influences is broad. The music of Gabriela Montero, for example, can be said to ______ elements of both the classical European tradition and the social, political, and cultural landscape of her native Venezuela. A. defy B. neglect C. exhibit D. foretell
Answer: C

4154. Which quotation from a publication by a researcher would most effectively support the student's claim? A student is writing an essay on the subject of cultured meat, which is grown in a laboratory and is intended to help reduce the number of livestock harvested for food. The student wants to make the case that cultured meat production may be useful in responding to an expected widespread change in the public's behavior. A. "Consumers tend to believe that using less packaging when selling meat products in stores would have a significant effect on the environment." B. "A growing population that is including significantly more meat in its diet will contribute to an increasing demand for meat products in the 21st century." C. "Researchers who advocate for the development of lab-grown meat claim that it's better than conventional meat because its nutritional content can be adjusted." D. "Some of the growth promoters that would be needed to produce large quantities of cultured meats are currently prohibited for farming purposes in the European Union."
Answer: B

4307. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? June is the First Fall is a 2018 play by Yilong Liu. ______ play was first performed at the Kumu Kahua Theatre in Honolulu. A. It B. This C. Those D. These
Answer: B

4308. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When Eric Arthur Blair published the novel Animal Farm in 1945, Blair's name didn't actually appear on the book's cover. That's because Blair chose ______ a pen name: George Orwell. A. to use B. use C. used D. will use
Answer: A

4441. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? In the search for new impact craters on Mars, the roles of seismic monitoring and orbital imaging as data sources are ______: when vibrations detected with seismic monitoring indicate roughly where an impact has occurred, researchers can use orbital images of that relatively limited area of the rocky surface to precisely locate a new crater. A. complementary B. exhaustive C. interchangeable D. redundant
Answer: A

4451. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Reported Annual Travel Distances in Four Studies of Migrating Animal Populations

Species

Continent Distance (km) Measurement method

Mule deer

North America

772

RTD

Caribou

North America 3,807 GPS

Gray wolf

North America 2,155 GPS

White-eared kob Africa

400

RTD

Some studies of migrating animals measure how far the animals travel in a year by fitting individuals with GPS tracking collars. Other studies track annual round-trip distance (RTD), which is equal to double the distance separating the two habitats a population migrates between each year. A researcher argues that since GPS records all of an animal's movements, using the GPS method to track a population would result in significantly higher recorded travel distances than using the RTD method would. For example, it's very likely that the distance reported for the ______

A. caribou would be greater than 2,155 kilometers if the RTD method had been used.

B. caribou would be less than 3,807 kilometers if the RTD method had been used.

C. white-eared kob would be less than 400 kilometers if the GPS method had been used.

D. white-eared kob would be greater than 3,807 kilometers if the GPS method had been used.

Answer: B

4453. Which choice most logically completes the text? Scientists looking for signs of ancient life in Africa have found many examples of fossilized hominins, including in a geological formation at the Danakil Depression. However, to find even older specimens like early multicellular organisms from the Ediacaran period, scientists must look elsewhere, such as in the Ediacaran geological formation at Ediacara Hills in Oceania, because ______ A. Oceania has sites with hominins but not sites with early multicellular organisms. B. the hominins at Ediacara Hills are better preserved than the hominins at the Danakil Depression. C. early multicellular organisms are found at more sites around the world than hominins. D. that formation is from an earlier time than the formation with the hominins.
Answer: D

4459. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In eastern Mexico, Monument 61 and Monument 1 are the names given to two massive human head statues that were left behind by the ancient Olmec civilization. Both statues are made of stone and are extremely heavy. ______ they each weigh more than 5 tons! A. Instead, B. In any case, C. In fact, D. Earlier,
Answer: C

4591. Based on the texts, how would Rose and colleagues (Text 2) most likely respond to the assertion by Slater and Mann (Text 1) about the different prevalence of female birdsong in temperate and tropical areas?
Text 1
For decades, ornithologists assumed that if they saw a singing Cassin's finch--a bird species found in temperate North America--they must be observing a male trying to attract a mate or claim territory. As Peter J.B. Slater and Nigel I. Mann have emphasized, however, a similar assumption can't be made about birds in the tropics, where females sing as often as males do. Slater and Mann call for more research on this discrepancy between tropical and temperate female birdsong.

Text 2 Recent evidence shows that a female Cassin's finch is as capable of song as a male is. In fact, female birdsong is more common among temperate species than currently assumed, claim Evangeline Rose and colleagues. These female songbirds sing less frequently than males do, and in duller tones, making it "easy for researchers to miss the quiet and hidden females and focus on the loud and colorful males," says Rose. A. They would concede that the geographic difference in prevalence is real but argue that the frequency with which male tropical birds sing has been overstated by previous researchers. B. They would raise the possibility that the difference in prevalence may be due to differences in the timing of the mating season among temperate and tropical bird species. C. They would argue that the apparent difference in prevalence may partly reflect a difference in the ease with which female birdsong and male birdsong can be detected. D. They would caution that the seeming difference in prevalence may be an artifact of researchers' tendency to study birdsong among temperate species more frequently than among tropical species.
Answer: C
4594. According to the text, which factors seemed to be linked to the behavior of butterflies in Grace Herzel and colleagues' study? Biologist Grace Herzel and colleagues conducted a study of how butterfly color and weather conditions relate to butterfly behavior, which wouldn't have been possible without data gathered by students and other amateur science enthusiasts in the community. Considering over three years' worth of data, the researchers found that white butterflies were observed on green flowers more often than any other butterflies were, and that butterflies were observed to feed more often on cloudy days than on other days. A. Butterfly color but not weather conditions B. Neither butterfly color nor weather conditions C. Weather conditions but not butterfly color D. Both butterfly color and weather conditions
Answer: D
4751. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Cat and I is a woodcut by Gertrude Abercrombie, an American artist. Abercrombie created ______ in 1936. A. those B. it C. them D. these
Answer: B
4895. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Writing in hieroglyphs, ancient Egyptians recorded measurements using units such as the khefa, a unit of ______ and the sa, a unit of area. The khefa, for instance, is written as a short, horizontal hieroglyph shaped like the back of a fist. A. length, the khar; a unit of volume, B. length the khar, a unit of volume C. length; the khar; a unit of volume; D. length; the khar, a unit of volume;
Answer: D
4896. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Mia Heavener's 2019 novel Under Nushagak Bluff, which takes place in a mid-twentieth-century rural Alaskan fishing ______ the story of three Yup'ik women who grapple with the rise of commercial fisheries and other changes affecting their community. A. village: tells B. village tells C. village. Tells D. village, tells
Answer: D
5046. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Susana Wadgymar is a biologist at Davidson ______ conducts research on plants. A. College, she B. College she C. College. Where she D. College. She
Answer: D
5184. Which finding from the model tests, if true, would support the researchers' hypothesis? Throughout history, tall structures such as Hwangnyongsa in South Korea or Ruwanwelisaya in Sri Lanka have posed a challenge to their architects, since these structures are more susceptible to physical forces than smaller structures. For example, the lower floors of a building must be able to support the enormous weight of the upper floors. To test a hypothesis that steel is more suitable than concrete for construction of a tall building's lower floors, researchers created a computer model of two buildings that were identical except that one had concrete lower floors while one had steel lower floors, and simulated the effects of the forces of wind and gravity on those structures over the course of a century. A. At the end of the simulation, the structure with steel lower floors had slightly larger dimensions at its base than it did at the beginning of the simulation. B. At the end of the simulation, the structure with concrete lower floors was several inches shorter than the structure with steel lower floors. C. During the simulation, when sudden forces caused vibrations in the structures, those vibrations took longer to disappear in the structure with steel lower floors than in the structure with concrete lower floors. D. During the simulation, the structure with steel lower floors bent in high wind to a greater degree than did the structure with concrete lower floors.
Answer: B
5185. Which choice most logically completes the text? There are over 150 species of the cactus genus Mammillaria throughout the Americas, but their survival can be threatened by high precipitation and dense vegetation that blocks sunlight. Researchers have located species from the genus in almost every state in Mexico, with several of them, like M. schumannii, restricted to only one state. The fact that this genus has not been observed in parts of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range has been attributed to a lack of appropriate habitat, but much of the landscape in this area is notoriously inaccessible, which suggests that ______ A. the perceived absence of Mammillaria in parts of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range may be due to insufficient exploration of the region. B. M. schumannii may have been overlooked in parts of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range because of its similarity to another species. C. the dense vegetation and high annual precipitation levels in parts of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range impede the ability of Mammillaria species to survive. D. the current methods of collecting and tracking Mammillaria species throughout Mexico may cause an overestimation of the number of species in this genus.
Answer: A
5189. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Los Angeles, the producer Christine Wetherill Stevenson was honored by having Pilgrimage Bridge named ______ her play. A. after B. after, C. after: D. after;
Answer: A
5192. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Girl with a Cat is an oil painting by Gwen John, a Welsh artist. John created ______ in 1922. A. them B. these C. it D. those
Answer: C
5337. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Angry Cat (Chat Furieux) is a lithograph by Jean Dubuffet, a French artist. Dubuffet created ______ in 1953. A. it B. those C. these D. them
Answer: A
5476. Which finding about the Across County Lines exhibition, if true, would most directly support the underlined claim? The Reckoning and Resilience (2022) exhibition at Duke University's Nasher Museum of Art was the first to focus entirely on North Carolina artists since the exhibition Across County Lines four years earlier. The curators of the 2022 exhibition included painters like Renzo Ortega, photographers like Ashley Johnson, and mixed-media artists like Johannes Barfield. But whereas the work by Johnson would have fit the theme for Across County Lines, works by Ortega and Barfield would not have.

A. It was curated specifically to emphasize works that are not owned by the Nasher Museum. B. It consisted mostly of works by mixed-media artists. C. It included a greater number of artists than Reckoning and Resilience. D. It consisted entirely of works by photographers.
5482. Which choice most logically completes the text? Studying animals in a laboratory allows variables to be systematically controlled, but removing animals from their wild habitats can affect their behavior and biology in unforeseen ways. Given this, biologists Rebecca M. Calisi-Rodríguez and George E. Bentley examined research on brown-throated three-toed sloths and canaries to see whether results from studies in the wild were consistent with the results of studies in the laboratory. Therefore, data showing that brown-throated three-toed sloths tend to sleep fewer than 10 hours per day in the wild would be irrelevant to Calisi-Rodríguez and Bentley's investigation if ______ A. such data have been collected for canaries in laboratory settings but not in the wild. B. they tend to sleep more than 15 hours per day in the lab. C. this behavior pattern has not been studied in the lab. D. the brains of male canaries show predictable seasonal changes in the wild.
5631. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? When Samuel Langhorne Clemens published the novel The Adventures of Tom Sawyer in 1876, Clemens's name didn't actually appear on the book's cover. That's because Clemens chose ______ a pen name: Mark Twain. A. used B. to use C. use D. will use
5633. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Astronomers Annie and Edward Maunder meticulously studied historical records of dark areas on the sun's surface known as sunspots. Their work in the late 1800s led to the identification of a period from 1645 to 1715--now known as the Maunder ______ sunspots were notably scarce, a phenomenon that solar physicists continue to investigate. A. Minimum--when B. Minimum when C. Minimum, when D. Minimum: when
5765. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The Hare dog of Canada predated European colonization of the Americas but later vanished due to interbreeding with other types of dogs. In contrast, the Xoloitzcuintli, whose origins in Mexico also predate colonization, has persisted. And DNA testing suggests that the Carolina dog of the rural Southeastern US descends partly from precolonial breeds, with European dog breeds ______ the bulk of its ancestry. A. contributing B. increasing C. seizing D. obscuring
5773. Which finding from Mulder and Spellman's study, if true, would most directly support the claim that plant species in boreal ecosystems may not exhibit the pattern seen in studies of plant species in other types of ecosystems? Port Clarence Indian paintbrush (Castilleja caudata) plants are native to Alaska, where the harsh boreal conditions historically impeded potential invasive species. In recent decades, however, bird vetch (Vicia cracca) plants have established themselves in Alaska. Studies have suggested that increasingly warm spring temperatures benefit invasive plant species more than native plant species, but no such studies have focused on boreal ecosystems despite similar temperature changes occurring there. To fill this gap, biologists Christa Mulder and Katie Spellman tracked C. caudata and V. cracca, along with other native and invasive species, over several years. A. Although C. caudata and V. cracca tended to produce leaves at about the same time in years with historically typical spring temperatures, V. cracca produced leaves sooner than C. caudata did in years with relatively high spring temperatures. B. Although C. caudata and V. cracca both tended to produce more leaves in years with relatively high spring temperatures than in years with historically typical spring temperatures, V. cracca showed a greater increase than C. caudata did. C. Although C. caudata and V. cracca tended to produce initial leaves at different times, the size of that difference did not vary from year to year despite substantial interannual increases in spring temperatures. D. Although C. caudata tended to produce fewer leaves per year than V. cracca did, interannual variations in spring temperatures during the study were within the historically typical range.
5781. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Many works of the Greek dramatist Sophocles (5th century BCE) are ______ his Oedipus Rex, a tragedy about King Oedipus of Thebes, is an extant work: it can still be read. A. lost and conversely, B. lost, conversely, C. lost. Conversely, D. lost, and conversely
5912. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Using tracking tools such as depth loggers, Nicole Esteban and team studied the near-surface swimming behavior of species as different from each other as the loggerhead turtle and the pygmy blue whale. Their study departs from most depth-tracking research, which historically has ______ the deepest and longest dives. A. disregarded B. simulated C. included D. prioritized
5913. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Water flowing through a river's hyporheic zone--i.e., the subsurface region where surface water mixes with groundwater--flows not only beneath but also ______ the channel. Indeed, by mapping aquatic organisms found in soil beyond a waterway's banks, scientists have shown the extent of the hyporheic zone's reach, which for a great river like the Congo can stretch up to 400 meters from the channel. A. clockwise around B. deep under C. adjacent to D. contrary to
5924. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The film Fancy Dance is a feature-length drama released in 2023. It ______ directed by Seneca-Cayuga filmmaker Erica Tremblay. A. were B. are C. have been D. was
6060. Which choice best states the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? In The Jazz Continuum, LaTasha Barnes, Alain Lauture, and other dancers seamlessly interweave recent dance styles, including hip-hop and voguing, with elements of the Lindy Hop, a popular swing dance of the 1930s with roots in the Black American community of Harlem, New York. Inspired by Barnes's curiosity about the similarities between the Lindy Hop and these seemingly unrelated dance styles, the show's choreography makes visible how intertwined their histories actually are. The show is therefore a testament to the Lindy Hop's enduring influence on American culture. A. It identifies the motivation for The Jazz Continuum's choreographic approach that is described earlier in the text. B. It identifies the specific ways in which the Lindy Hop is similar to the contemporary dance styles discussed in the text. C. It provides evidence for the text's claim that the Lindy Hop has had a greater cultural impact than the other dances featured in The Jazz Continuum have had. D. It addresses the reasons why the historical connections between the dance styles mentioned earlier in the text have been generally overlooked.
6070. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Across the Universe was written by Beth Revis. The book ______ about a girl who wakes up on a spaceship after being frozen for centuries. A. are B. is C. have been D. were
6073. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Mother and Cat is a tempera painting by Miné Okubo, an American artist. Okubo created ______ in 1941. A. these B. them C. those D. it
6075. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Many works of the Greek philosopher Theophrastus (4th century BCE) are ______ his Historia plantarum, a botanical study, is an extant work: it can still be read. A. lost. Conversely, B. lost, conversely, C. lost and conversely, D. lost, and conversely

Section: Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing, Difficulty: hard (216 questions)
55. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Exposed to harsh environmental conditions for centuries, lighthouses such as La Jument lighthouse off the coast of Brittany, France, exemplify the ______ between marine structures and ocean forces: the continuous impact of breaking waves necessitates periodic reinforcements to or redesigns of the structures that in turn may alter local wave patterns. A. continuum B. tension C. incongruity D. interplay
Answer: D
56. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? ______ the mythological and heroic subject matter often found in works by Ary Scheffer and other establishment figures, Honoré Daumier's painting The Third-Class Carriage instead focuses on something decidedly mundane: working-class travelers in a third-class railway car. A. Eschewing B. Expounding C. Caricaturing D. Appraising
Answer: A
57. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Though copies of The Adventures of Indiana Jones in Wenceslas Square in Prague on January 16, 1989--an underground computer game that was created anonymously in 1989 as an act of political protest against the authoritarian regime of what was then Czechoslovakia--were originally distributed ______, the game is now readily available online for anyone to play. A. succinctly B. surreptitiously C. disingenuously D. dispassionately
Answer: B
58. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? In their study of caterpillars in fragmented forests (formerly contiguous forests that have been broken into isolated patches by roads or other interruptions), Nicole M. Dallar et al. stress that although fragmentation inevitably ______ alterations to local ecological processes, the changes will likely have a greater impact on Parallelia bistriaris, a specialist feeding on a limited number of plant species, than on a species like Morrisonia confusa that feeds on several. A. attenuates B. preempts C. subsumes D. engenders
Answer: D
59. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? Typically, synthetic leather is petroleum based, but materials scientists searching for an ecologically sustainable alternative have used various bacteria that secrete linear chains of glucose, forming a dense mesh of cellulose called a pellicle, which is leatherlike except in color. The standard process for dyeing leather generates substantial wastewater and other undesirable byproducts, so adopting such a regimen would run counter to the ecological promise of the pellicle approach. To address this, Kenneth T. Walker and colleagues worked to modify Komagataeibacter rhaeticus bacteria to produce a pellicle with embedded pigmentation cells, thereby allowing the pellicle to "dye" itself from the inside. A. To describe a consideration that led the researchers to employ an alternative approach to coloring a pellicle that allowed them to achieve their main goal as presented in the text B. To indicate the characteristic of conventional synthetic leathers that makes those leathers poorly suited to achieve the researchers' main goal as presented in the text C. To illustrate how the researchers adapted the pellicle approach to overcome a potential impediment to their main goal as presented in the text D. To concede that the researchers' main goal as described in the text will be challenging to achieve due to the standard coloring approach being impractical for use on a pellicle
Answer: A
60. Based on the texts, how would the critics mentioned in Text 2 most likely respond to the underlined claim in Text 1? Text 1 Good art often challenges and disrupts social and aesthetic norms, but the creation of public art--paintings, sculptures, and performance pieces displayed in nonmuseum or nontheatrical public settings--typically requires broad agreement among artists, civic officials, and community members about the works' message and artistic goals. Public art that fails to appease everyone by being sufficiently aesthetically and conceptually bland almost inevitably provokes backlash.

Text 2 Public art is commonly displayed in spaces intended for purposes other than meaningful aesthetic engagement. Some critics of public art therefore note that normdefying pieces that aren't effectively integrated within their surroundings in a manner that primes passersby to appreciate the pieces' merits (as is often the case) tend to be regarded more unfavorably than similarly provocative art encountered in museums is. A. By contending that the kinds of reactions controversial public artworks often receive aren't exclusively the result of attributes inherent in the works themselves B. By disputing the notion that civic leaders and community members are easily placated by art that is intended mainly to reinforce social norms C. By agreeing with the idea that only works of art that are universally appealing are suitable for displaying in public spaces D. By arguing that the reason members of the general public might disagree about a public artwork's merits is unrelated to the unconventionality of its appearance and ideas
Answer: A

61. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? The following text is from Ralph Waldo Emerson's 1841 essay "The Method of Nature."
The scholars are the priests of that thought which establishes the foundations of the earth. No matter what is their special work or profession, they stand for the spiritual interest of the world, and it is a common calamity if they neglect their post in a country where the material interest is so predominant as it is in America. A. In a country whose citizens are largely preoccupied with tangible gains, it is crucial that some people work to foster and preserve ideas. B. The habit of intellectuals of privileging ideas over material things invariably leads to tragedy. C. It is important for Americans of all kinds to have at least some military experience if society is to function properly. D. Scholars have played an important role in society for a much longer time than have those people who are mainly concerned with financial gain.
Answer: A

62. Based on the text, what can be concluded about clothing made during the Ice Age?
Ian Gilligan et al. claim that during the Ice Age, humans at Varvarina Gora in Siberia made fitted clothing by boring holes in pieces of hide and fur with a sharpened bone tool called an awl and then threading cord through the holes to bind the pieces together. Eventually, as evidenced by artifacts at Aitzbitarte III in Europe, someone perforated the end of a bone awl to make an eye (hole) to hold the cord, thereby creating a sewing needle with which both steps could be performed in a single motion. This sped up the process of making clothing and, by freeing them from the need to push cord through holes manually, allowed artisans to make smaller holes and thus finer seams.
A. Clothing made with awls at sites like Varvarina Gora likely had finer seams than clothing made with needles at sites like Aitzbitarte III did.
B. Clothing made with awls at sites like Varvarina Gora could likely be made more quickly than clothing made with needles at sites like Aitzbitarte III.
C. Clothing made with awls at sites like Varvarina Gora likely had coarser seams than clothing made with needles at sites like Aitzbitarte III did.
D. Clothing made at sites like Varvarina Gora was likely made with needles, while clothing made at sites like Aitzbitarte III was likely made with awls.
Answer: C

63. What does the text most strongly suggest about museomics? Uwe Fritz and colleagues' 2014 investigation, which examined the evolutionary trajectory of the turtle species Pelomedusa subrufa, demonstrates the potential held by museomics--the study of hDNA, genomic data from archival specimens housed in collections such as those at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History. Although it is a challenge for evolutionary biologists that museum specimens have been prone to exogenous DNA contamination, emerging advances in DNA extraction and sequencing may soon enable hDNA to reveal a range of evolutionary relationships and patterns. A. By expanding the types of DNA samples available to researchers, it is becoming a widely used alternative to traditional genomic methods. B. It is an approach to the study of evolutionary phenomena that holds much promise for future scientific advances. C. As a result of recent technological breakthroughs, it is no longer a challenging approach for evolutionary biologists to use. D. It can provide researchers access to DNA from reptiles, but it requires the latest and most advanced laboratory equipment.
Answer: B

64. Which statement about the use of hydrogen in the glass and heating industries is most strongly supported by the text? From glass production to fuel for residential heating, hydrogen has many applications. Currently, producing hydrogen is carbon intensive, but Alexandra M. Oliveira is one of many scholars investigating the feasibility of large-scale production of hydrogen through electrolysis, a process that emits no carbon when renewable energy is used. Oliveira suggests that although some obstacles may prevent electrolytic hydrogen from dominating energy systems, there is utility in its ability to decarbonize the glass and heating industries, where reducing carbon emissions is especially challenging. A. The adoption of electrolytic hydrogen by these industries has been impeded by concerns about how carbon intensive its production is. B. At least some of electrolytic hydrogen's potential to lessen these industries' carbon emissions is as yet unrealized. C. Development of applications for electrolytic hydrogen is less advanced in these industries than it is in most other carbon-intensive industries. D. The fact that large-scale electrolytic hydrogen production is not yet available has limited these industries' interest in pursuing hydrogen-based applications.
Answer: B

65. Which choice best presents a conclusion about the habits of New Year's resolution makers that is best supported by information in the text and the table?

Percentages of New Year's Resolution Makers Who Make Certain Kinds of Resolutions

Type of resolution Age 18-29 Age 30-49 Age 50-64 Age 65+

Health and exercise

79

80

79

76

Finances

68

63

56

47

Personal relationships 63

53

58

52

Hobbies

65

53

51

45

A Pew Research Center survey conducted in January 2024 found that three out of ten US adults make at least one New Year's resolution (a promise for the year ahead), while half of those who make a resolution make more than one. The survey asked participants what kinds of resolutions they made and separated them into several categories. The table presents percentages of people who make particular kinds of New Year's resolutions among those who choose to make them, indexed by age bracket.

A. The majority of US adults who make resolutions related to health and exercise also make resolutions in multiple additional categories.

B. Among all US adults, people become less likely to make New Year's resolutions as they age, regardless of the type of resolution.

C. Resolution makers between the ages of 18 and 29 are more likely to make resolutions about health and exercise than resolution makers between the ages of 30 and 49 are.

D. Resolution makers between the ages of 50 and 64 are more likely to make resolutions related to personal relationships and less likely to make resolutions related to finances than resolution makers between the ages of 30 and 49 are.

Answer: D

66. Which quotation from Richard II most effectively illustrates the claim? Richard II is a play from the 1590s by William Shakespeare. Although King Richard has been vanquished by his cousin Henry Bolingbroke, he intimates that he is not entirely ready to show subservience to his cousin, saying, ______ A. "I have no name, no title,-- / No, not that name was given me at the font,-- / But 'tis usurp'd:-- Alack the heavy day, / That I have worn so many winters out, / And know not now what name to call myself!" B. "Am I both priest and clerk? Well then, amen. / God save the King! although I be not he; / And yet, amen, if heaven do think him me." C. "Still my griefs are mine. / You may my glories and my state depose, / But not my griefs; still am I king of those." D. "Alack, why am I sent for to a king, / Before I have shook off the regal thoughts / Wherewith I reign'd? I hardly yet have learn'd / To insinuate, flatter, bow, and bend my knee."
Answer: D

67. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

Minimum and Maximum Depths of Stony Coral Species in Caribbean and Indo-Pacific Waters

Species

Minimum depth (meters) Maximum depth (meters)

Acropora echinata

8

25

Danafungia scruposa

1

27

Astreopora expansa

5

15

Scolymia lacera

10

80

A marine biologist is researching four scleractinian coral species, which are also called stony corals because of the hard skeletons they develop. Consulting the table, she notes that the two species for which the maximum depths are most similar are ______

A. Danafungia scruposa and Scolymia lacera.

B. Astreopora expansa and Scolymia lacera.

C. Astreopora expansa and Acropora echinata.

D. Acropora echinata and Danafungia scruposa.

Answer: D

68. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Interested in how the color of dogs' irises affects human responses to dogs, Akitsugu Konno et al. showed images of 12 dogs' faces to human participants and asked them to rate the dogs' kindness and confidence as well as the likelihood that they would interact with or keep the dogs. The researchers had previously adjusted the images so that each dog was presented in two versions, one with light irises and one with dark irises. They distributed the images such that no participant saw both the light and dark versions of the same dog. Konno et al. found that participants responded more positively to the latter. The study's design allowed the researchers to exclude the possibility that the results ______
A. were a function of participants emphasizing the colors of the dogs' irises over the dogs' kindness and confidence when reacting to the images.
B. reflected a preference on the part of participants for facial features that happened to coincide with dark irises in the dogs depicted in the images.
C. could be explained by participants having preexisting positive feelings about dogs with dark irises or preexisting negative feelings about dogs with light irises.
D. may have been different if participants had been able to see the dogs' irises in person instead of only seeing images that included the dogs' irises.
Answer: B

69. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Duckweed is a small freshwater plant that is often exposed to zinc pollution. Sofia Vámos and colleagues collected samples of four duckweed ecotypes (genetically and geographically distinct populations within a species), along with water from each ecotype's habitat. Hypothesizing that each ecotype is adapted to its local conditions in ways that bolster its growth and resistance to pollutants, the researchers grew each ecotype in all four water samples and with three levels of zinc (none, low, high). (The researchers did not replicate local differences in light or temperature.) They found that the ecotypes grew equally well in all four water samples and that adding zinc consistently enhanced growth, regardless of concentration, suggesting that ______
A. while the ecotypes are genetically and geographically distinct, those differences do not represent adaptations to local environmental conditions.
B. if each ecotype is indeed locally adapted as the researchers hypothesized, those adaptations are to other environmental conditions than the water each ecotype inhabits.
C. there may not be significant differences in the water that each ecotype inhabits, but there are significant differences in each ecotype's resistance to zinc pollution.
D. although the researchers' hypothesis does not appear to be supported, this may be because the levels of zinc exposure the plants in the experiment received did not match their exposure in their natural environments.
Answer: B

70. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? While some biologists cite the Darwinian species concept (Jolly 2014), others adhere to the evolutionary species concept (Barraclough 2019), with at least fourteen other concepts used across the field. Such lack of consensus, however, isn't necessarily cause for alarm. Scholars supporting a pluralist approach--in place of a single, monistic concept--to defining a species ______ that a diversity of species concepts fits their equally diverse applications throughout the discipline. A. to argue B. is arguing C. argue D. argues
Answer: C

71. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Growing as large as three meters in diameter, the leaves of the giant Amazonian waterlily feature a complex network of radiating veins that provide structural ______ in thickness from the center to the edges, these veins allow the leaves to maintain their large size and buoyancy with minimal material, optimizing light capture and photosynthesis. A. support decreasing B. support, while decreasing C. support, decreasing D. support. Decreasing
Answer: D

72. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? During a 2022 expedition led by research zoologist Andrea Quattrini, scientists discovered a new species of black coral off the coast of Puerto Rico. Like other black corals, the newly discovered species, which they named Aphanipathes puertoricoensis, has coiled branching structures that ______ it survive in the deep sea. A. help B. has helped C. helping D. helps
Answer: A

73. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? To British musician Jacob Collier, substituting the ii chord for the bVII chord--its opposite in pitch and tone--adds expression to improvisation without creating dissonance. This conceptualization of harmonic opposites did not originate with ______ in 1985, the idea was first articulated in Swiss musicologist Ernst Levy's posthumously published book A Theory of Harmony. A. Collier, though, B. Collier; though, C. Collier, though D. Collier, though;
Answer: D

74. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The statement "all giraffes have long necks" is scientific because it could be proved false by a single observation to the contrary, according to Karl Popper. Popper's theory ______ that scientific hypotheses must be refutable, termed the criterion of falsifiability, rejects the confirmationist position that uses verifiability as the standard for scientific hypotheses. A. was dictating B. dictating C. dictated D. dictates
Answer: B

75. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Novelist and playwright Anna Maria Hall joined with 55 other prominent British writers in 1837 to petition the US Congress for greater copyright protections. This cadre of renowned ______ that American publishers' appropriation of their work caused, in the words of the petition, "deep and extensive injuries...on their reputation and property," helped sow the seeds for the International Copyright Act of 1891. A. authors, asserting B. authors asserted C. authors, had asserted D. authors were asserting
Answer: A

76. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In 2001, some 391 years after Galileo Galilei and Simon Marius independently discovered Jupiter's four largest moons (Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto), scientists discovered the moon Sponde in orbit around Jupiter. ______ researchers have discovered eighty moons orbiting Jupiter. A. Rather, B. In other words, C. For example, D. To date,
Answer: D

77. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Brain imaging research led by neuroscientist Dwaynica Greaves found that actors showed suppressed responses in the left anterior prefrontal cortex (the portion of the brain associated with self-awareness) when their names were called during performances; ______ the actors' responses were normal in nonacting contexts. These findings suggest that when embodying characters, performers may temporarily set aside their personal identities. A. conversely, B. specifically, C. likewise, D. thus,
Answer: A

78. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize a difference between the two paintings?
Calida Garcia Rawles is an African American painter. She is known for her large-scale, hyperrealistic paintings depicting African American figures in water. The painting Soar (24 × 18 in) depicts a young girl in a white dress floating at the bottom left corner of the canvas.

Yesterday Called and Said We Were Together (48 × 60 in) depicts two unidentifiable figures with their arms outstretched floating in the upper left of the canvas. She paints the water with vivid blue colors, including midnight blue and aquamarine. The mood in the paintings is relaxed. A. Calida Garcia Rawles captures the water in paintings such as Soar and Yesterday Called and Said We Were Together in vivid hues of midnight blue and aquamarine. B. While some of Rawles's works, such as Soar, feature one figure in the composition, Yesterday Called and Said We Were Together features two figures floating in the vivid blue water. C. Although the number of figures may differ, constant among Rawles's hyperrealistic works is the relaxed mood that the paintings evoke. D. Among the many stunning works of Calida Garcia Rawles is Yesterday Called and Said We Were Together, a relaxed 48-by-60-inch painting depicting two unidentifiable figures floating with their arms outstretched in the vivid blue water.
Answer: B
79. The student wants to support Browner's claim about Louis Ballard's compositions. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Louis Ballard was a classical composer and citizen of the Quapaw Tribe. Ballard's composition Desert Trilogy was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in music in 1971. His composition Cacéga Ayuwípi incorporates a Ute eagle-bone whistle, a traditional Native instrument. Ethnomusicologist Tara Browner claims that Ballard's compositions rely on elements originating within Native musical traditions. A. According to Browner, composer Louis Ballard, who wrote Desert Trilogy, relies on elements with origins in Native musical traditions. B. Classical composer Louis Ballard, who wrote Cacéga Ayuwípi, was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in music in 1971. C. Browner posits that Louis Ballard's compositions rely on elements originating within Native musical traditions; Cacéga Ayuwípi affirms this assertion, incorporating a Ute eagle-bone whistle. D. Browner claims that Louis Ballard's compositions, one of which was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize, rely on elements originating within Native musical traditions.
Answer: C
80. The student wants to make and support a claim regarding the applicability of the farm-size transition hypothesis to Thailand. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The farm-size transition hypothesis predicts that economic pressures associated with modernization result in smaller farms amalgamating into larger-scale commercial farms. Masters et al. (2013): The average farm size in Asia "already has or will soon begin to rise." Promkhambut et al. (2023) argue that small rice farms in Thailand have adopted modern farming methods without a significant scaling-up of farm size. Promkhambut et al.: "The persistence of [small] rice farms [in Thailand] does not represent a `failure' to modernize...or a `truncated' transition--it is a response to modernization." A. Although the farm-size transition hypothesis may be applicable to some countries in Asia, it is inconsistent with the development of rice farming in Thailand. B. Masters et al. report that the average farm size "already has or will soon begin to rise" in Asia, a finding that is consistent with the farm-size transition hypothesis. C. Taken together, the studies by Masters et al. and Promkhambut et al. suggest that rice farms in Thailand have responded to the economic pressures associated with modernization by expanding in size. D. The predicted shift to large-scale commercial farming may not hold true for rice farms in Thailand, where, according to Promkhambut et al., rice farms have remained small as they've modernized.
Answer: D
81. The student wants to explain the significance of Delaware's NPVIC adoption. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
In the Electoral College system that determines the outcome of US presidential elections, the winner of Delaware's popular vote receives all 3 of Delaware's electoral votes. A 2001 article written by law professors Akhil and Vikram Amar proposed that states could instead agree to award their electoral votes to the winner of the national popular vote. The Amars' idea is the basis of the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact (NPVIC). If states holding a majority of electoral college votes (270) adopt the NPVIC, the compact will take effect and adopters will award their electoral votes accordingly. Delaware adopted the NPVIC in 2019. A. An agreement among US states to award their electoral votes to the presidential candidate who wins the national popular vote was adopted by Delaware in 2019. B. If the NPVIC takes effect, adopter Delaware will award all 3 of its electoral votes to the winner of the national, rather than the state's, popular vote. C. Because it has adopted the NPVIC, Delaware will award its electoral votes to the winner of the state's popular vote--once states holding a majority of electoral college votes (270) do the same. D. According to the idea proposed by the Amars, the winner of Delaware's popular vote will receive all of the state's electoral votes if the NPVIC takes effect.
Answer: B
202. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Louisa May Alcott contributed A Modern Mephistopheles to the No Name Series, a collection of novels published anonymously between 1876 and 1887. The series challenged readers to guess authors' identities, reflecting the era's fascination for literary mystery. This ______ approach to publishing allowed Alcott to experiment beyond her established style. A. clandestine B. preliminary C. inexplicable D. unequivocal
Answer: A
204. As used in the text, what does the word "breathes" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from the 1895 poem "Ojistoh" by Emily Pauline Johnson, a Kanienkahagen (Mohawk) writer also known as Tekahionwake.
I am Ojistoh, I am she, the wife Of him whose name breathes bravery and life And courage to the tribe who calls him chief. I am Ojistoh, his white star, and he Is land, and lake, and sky--and soul to me. A. Absorbs B. Defers C. Renounces D. Imparts
Answer: D
205. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? If some specific predictions in Alvin Toffler's 1970 book Future Shock seem ludicrous now--people do not wear paper clothing while living in underwater cities-- Toffler's fundamental claim that rapid technological and social change will leave people feeling disoriented and atomized seems, in our age of disequilibrium and fragmentation, remarkably ______. A. articulate B. equivocal C. iconoclastic D. prescient
Answer: D
206. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? A conclusive demonstration of the logical certainty of the sensitivity conjecture, posed in 1992, ______ mathematicians' efforts until Hao Huang presented the first valid proof of the conjecture in 2019. A. defied B. prefigured C. epitomized D. displaced
Answer: A
207. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text? Tomi Adeyemi's first published work, the inventive West African-inspired fantasy novel Children of Blood and Bone, has intriguing things to say about the relationship between identity and power. Adeyemi works in a decades-long tradition going back to writers such as Samuel Delany and Octavia Butler, who wove cultural elements of the Black diaspora into their science fiction and fantasy in a movement known as Afrofuturism. At its core, the movement is characterized by speculation, not just about distant futures or other planets but also about alternate versions of our shared past. Afrofuturism's meditations on authority reinvigorate the creative potential of fiction. A. It summarizes a book, describes characteristics of the artistic movement of which the book is a part, and then points out the features the book shares with more widely read works. B. It introduces an intriguing debut work, contextualizes that work as part of an ongoing literary tradition, and then describes important themes of that tradition. C. It praises a newly published author, compares that author with others who might appear superficially similar, and then points out the features of that author's work that make it unique. D. It notes the political stance of an author, compares that author's book to other earlier works, and then analyzes the influence of political events on the book.
Answer: B
208. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? Most Native languages belong to language families, or groups of languages whose structural and lexical correspondence likely derives from their descent from a single language spoken long ago. A minority--such as Zuni, which is spoken in New Mexico, and Chitimacha, which is spoken in Louisiana--are isolates, having no demonstrable genealogical relationship to other languages. Yet Zuni and Chitimacha, like all isolates, are potentially remnants of families whose other members vanished before the historical record could attest to them, perhaps through the geographical expansion of extant families. A. It implies that a nonisolate language may have influenced both Zuni and Chitimacha to such a degree that their relationship to their former families is no longer discernible. B. It suggests that the ancestral languages of both Zuni and Chitimacha were likely isolates that replaced nonisolate languages through geographic expansion in the distant past. C. It proposes that the distinction made between present-day nonisolate languages and isolates like Zuni and Chitimacha may not have been applicable in the distant past. D. It asserts that the historical record tends to overrepresent nonisolate languages relative to isolates, such that the origins of Zuni and Chitimacha are obscure to scholars in the present day.
Answer: C
209. Based on the texts, how would the author of Text 2 most likely respond to the underlined portion in Text 1? Text 1 Researchers Douglas J. Levey and F. Gary Stiles observed that many migratory neotropical landbirds eat fruit or nectar and live in forest edges or other open habitats with large shifts in temperature. The researchers hypothesized that these traits each independently contributed to the evolution of long-distance migration in many neotropical landbird species, supporting their hypothesis with data relating to Turdinae and other families of birds.

Text 2 Levey and Stiles's hypothesis does not account for an additional possible evolutionary precursor to long-distance migration. W. Alice Boyle and Courtney J. Conway analyzed data on Machetornis rixosa and 378 other species of neotropical landbirds. They found that solitary foragers are more likely to migrate than birds that forage in groups, concluding that group foraging is consistently and negatively associated with long-distance migration. A. By suggesting that the evolution of long-distance migration contributed in turn to changes in many birds' foraging behavior B. By countering that neither diet nor habitat contributed as decisively to the evolution of long-distance migration in many bird lineages as foraging behavior likely did C. By noting that an aspect of foraging behavior likewise may be linked to the evolution of long-distance migration in many bird lineages D. By recommending that more studies be conducted to determine whether there is evidence of an association between birds' foraging behavior and long-distance migration
Answer: C

212. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Bird Species by Average Mass

Common name Average mass (kg) Capable of flight?

Kori bustard

11.4

Yes

Emperor penguin

31.5

No

Somali ostrich

90.0

No

Wandering albatross

11.9

Yes

Most bird species that are capable of flight weigh less than a kilogram (kg), which is not surprising considering the burden that extra body weight puts on a flying animal. But not all flying birds are so light, as we can see most clearly in the example of the ______

A. kori bustard, which has an average mass below 10 kg.

B. wandering albatross, which has an average mass of 11.9 kg.

C. Somali ostrich, which has an average mass of 90.0 kg.

D. Somali ostrich, which has a higher average mass than the emperor penguin.

Answer: B

213. Which finding, if true, would most directly weaken Carter and Kilikoglou's argument?
Variously, researchers have closely examined obsidian artifacts to document the long-term exploitation of particular obsidian sources, as in Alyson Lighthart Ponomarenko's 2004 study, or to glean aspects of cultural identity, as in Dennis Ogburn and colleagues' 2009 study. Studies of the Malia archaeological site on the Mediterranean island of Crete have shown that significant changes to building styles--changes consistent with an influx of people from another culture elsewhere in the Mediterranean--occurred from the Middle Bronze Age to the Late Bronze Age. In a 2022 study, however, Tristan Carter and Vassilis Kilikoglou found that obsidianobject production methods at Malia stayed remarkably consistent during this architectural transition, which they interpret as indicative of local cultural continuity in the Middle and Late Bronze Ages.
A. The methods used to produce obsidian objects at Malia during the Middle and Late Bronze Ages were also used by some other Mediterranean cultures in the period.
B. Changes to buildings like those that occurred at Malia have not been linked to changes in obsidian-object production methods in other Mediterranean cultures during the Middle and Late Bronze Ages.
C. The obsidian-object production method that was most common among other Mediterranean cultures during the Middle and Late Bronze Ages was more efficient than the method used at Malia.
D. The obsidian used to produce objects at Malia was transported to Crete from the same source elsewhere in the Mediterranean throughout the Middle and Late Bronze Ages.
Answer: A

214. Which finding, if true, would most directly support the idea that social buffering occurs among C. helleri?
The presence of other individuals of the same species has been observed to mitigate stress in highly social mammals. To investigate whether this phenomenon, known as social buffering, also occurs in reptiles, researchers led by Chelsea E. Martin monitored stress responses in wild southern Pacific rattlesnakes (Crotalus helleri) in three experimental treatments: when alone, with a rope, and with a companion C. helleri. The researchers compared the percent change between baseline and peak heart rate in response to a (harmless) disturbance, with higher values indicating higher stress levels.
A. The average percent change in heart rate was lower among C. helleri with a companion than among solitary C. helleri and C. helleri with a rope.
B. C. helleri with a companion displayed a lower average baseline heart rate and lower average peak heart rate than did solitary C. helleri or C. helleri with a rope.
C. Solitary C. helleri had higher average baseline heart rates than did C. helleri in the other treatments, but the average percent change in heart rate was smaller among solitary C. helleri than among C. helleri with a companion.
D. Average peak heart rates were highest among solitary C. helleri, but no differences were observed in average peak heart rates between C. helleri with a companion and C. helleri with a rope.
Answer: A

215. Which quotation from a literary scholar would most directly support the claim in the underlined portion of the text?
Scholars cite Men of Maize, the 1949 novel by Guatemalan author Miguel Ángel Asturias, as a foundational text of magical realism, the Latin American style of fiction in which antirealistic plot devices--often borrowed from the spiritual and narrative traditions of Indigenous and colonial societies in the Americas--are deployed in an otherwise realistic mode of representation typical of the modern novel. This style has exerted a decisive influence on authors in the United States, including Amy Tan, whose 1995 novel The Hundred Secret Senses resembles classic magical realist novels in its juxtaposition of literary realism with long-established cultural traditions-- namely, those of China as well as Chinese American communities.
A. "The cultural traditions of China as well as Chinese American communities, which figure so prominently in the magical realist tradition of Latin America, permit realistic as well as antirealistic scenarios--much as The Hundred Secret Senses does."
B. "Although much of The Hundred Secret Senses conforms to the conventions of realistic fiction, Amy Tan also incorporates elements drawn from Chinese cultural traditions that transcend and expose the limitations of realism."
C. "Even though The Hundred Secret Senses alternates between realistic and antirealistic modes of representation, the influence of Chinese cultural traditions remains constant throughout the novel."
D. "Much of the interest of The Hundred Secret Senses derives from the productive tension between its competing influences--namely, Chinese cultural traditions and the magical realism of Latin America."
Answer: B

216. Which choice most logically completes the text?
Antonia Olivia Dolan and colleagues had musicians and nonmusicians with clinically average hearing listen to recordings of nature sounds and music in popular genres like acoustic folk and orchestral and adjust the volume to optimize their listening enjoyment. The researchers found that for a given recording that a musician and nonmusician identified as their favorite among those included in the study, optimal volume tended to be higher for the musician than for the nonmusician. Thus, if a musician and nonmusician both identified Jose Gonzalez's "Heartbeats" as their favorite recording and the musician preferred to listen to it at a volume of 84.8 decibels, the nonmusician would be expected to ______
A. not find it enjoyable to listen to any recordings at a volume as low as 84.8 decibels.
B. prefer listening to other music at 84.8 decibels over listening to "Heartbeats" at that volume.
C. enjoy listening to the nature sounds at 84.8 decibels more than listening to "Heartbeats" at 84.8 decibels.
D. find listening to "Heartbeats" at 84.8 decibels less enjoyable than listening to it at a lower volume.
Answer: D

217. Which choice most logically completes the text? Pablo Picasso famously subverted the norms of traditional painting: in his cubist paintings he refused to let his expression be constrained, fragmenting objects and figures to present multiple perspectives simultaneously. Though less widely known, Picasso--who once lamented that writers of his time had "limited themselves to moving around words somewhat while respecting the syntax"--also wrote poetry that defied conventional grammar, semantic relationships, and text structure. Thus, the paintings and poems are linked in that ______ A. the poems are intended to be understood as explanations of the artistic inclinations reflected in the paintings. B. both exhibit Picasso's prioritization of creative expression over the standard rules of the art forms. C. the poems present many of the same subjects as the paintings but with different thematic approaches. D. both types of work are characterized by the simultaneous representation of multiple points of view that Picasso is known for.
Answer: B

218. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Enacted in 1953, Denmark's 6,221-word constitution, in contrast to Costa Rica's, which was enacted in 1949 and contains a far greater number (16,705) of words, ______ as the 13th shortest in the world. Such data are studied by constitutional scholars like Dominic J. Nardi, who can use them to draw broader conclusions. A. rank B. are ranking C. have ranked D. ranks
Answer: D

220. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The exoplanet GJ 357 b was discovered using an indirect approach to planetary detection, the transit method. Compared to that of the direct imaging method, ______ the effect these exoplanets have on nearby stars. A. the transit method's zone of discovery is vast, as distant exoplanets too dim to be observed are detected by B. distant exoplanets too dim to be observed are detected within the transit method's vast zone of discovery through C. the detection of distant exoplanets, too dim to be observed in the transit method's vast zone of discovery, is based on D. the transit method, with its vast zone of discovery, detects exoplanets that are too dim to be observed by
Answer: A

221. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In the eastern Chinese city of Suzhou, known as a hub for silk manufacturing, a unique tradition of embroidery ______ back over two thousand years--one that includes iconic double-sided stitching with different images on each side--remains popular with modern audiences, preserving the city's cultural heritage. A. date B. has dated C. dates D. dating
Answer: C

222. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? The Tiwi geothermal power plant in the Philippines provides a reliable source of renewable energy, yet geothermal plants supply only around 10.1% of the Philippines' electricity. Indeed, the necessary combination of naturally occurring geological and hydrological features--accessible underground reservoirs, sufficiently high subterranean temperatures, and fractured rocks--______ relatively rare, effectively limiting the Philippines' development of new geothermal energy infrastructure. A. proving B. have proved C. has proved D. are proving
Answer: C

223. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The early Australian railroad system of the 1800s was famously uncoordinated. Trains on the broad gauge Mornington Railway line in Victoria couldn't travel on the Zig Zag Railway in New South Wales, which used narrow gauge tracks, without performing time-consuming conversions. ______ historians refer to this complicated system as the "mixed gauge muddle." A. Likewise, B. Rather, C. For example, D. Hence,
Answer: D

224. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The Yapese Empire, a sea power in the Caroline Islands of Micronesia that reached its height around 1000 CE, is considered a thalassocracy--a geopolitical entity whose hegemony resulted from control of the sea rather than of land. Historians classify thalassocracies as distinct from tellurocracies, or land-based powers. ______ the British Empire (1600s-1900s CE) is known for both land and sea supremacy. A. In other words, empires are classified according to their source of power: B. Likewise, thalassocracies are sea-based powers: C. Of course, the distinction is not always so neat: D. For example, tellurocracies have long overpowered their rivals:
Answer: C

226. The student wants to present the study's research methods. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Suzanne K. Birner led a study analyzing rocks on the seafloor to better understand the history of Earth's mantle. Rock samples were collected from two seafloor ridges. The researchers determined the samples' period of formation (the Archean eon) and oxidation level (extremely low). High temperatures in the Archean likely caused the rocks' low oxidation. Birner's team suggests the oxidation of Earth's mantle has remained stable over time, contrary to previous theories. The findings help explain the unique conditions that allowed life to develop on Earth.
A. Birner led a study to better understand the history of Earth's mantle and explain the conditions that allowed life to develop.
B. Birner's team analyzed the age and oxidation levels of rock samples collected from two seafloor ridges.
C. To further analyze the origins of Earth's unique conditions, researchers focused on rocks from the Archean eon, when Earth's temperatures were extremely high.
D. By studying these ancient rocks, the team aimed to challenge previous theories about changes in Earth's mantle over time.
Answer: B

228. The student wants to connect a quotation to a particular nontraditional design element in Cody's work. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Melissa Cody is a Diné (Navajo) textile artist known for blending traditional Diné designs (stripes, zigzags, and diamond patterns) with nontraditional elements. Cody's work incorporates arrangements of shapes or text inspired by video game graphics and pop culture references. Cody: "I'm a child of '80s video game culture...I grew up with this world of pixelization." Cody: "The things we consider tradition now weren't considered tradition when they first came about." Her tapestry Dust features blocky letters revealed through negative space over a contrasting diamond pattern. Her tapestry Walking Off No Water Mesa features rectangular panes revealing a stylized landscape patterned by contrasting colored diamonds.
A. The blocky letters revealed through negative space in Dust reflect Cody's childhood familiarity with blocky video game graphics--what she calls "this world of pixelization."
B. Cody's tapestry Dust features a contrasting diamond pattern, a traditional design element that "we consider tradition now."
C. Cody's background as "a child of '80s video game culture" factored into her decision to blend traditional and nontraditional design elements in Walking Off No Water Mesa.
D. According to Cody, some elements of Walking Off No Water Mesa, such as contrasting colored diamonds, "weren't considered tradition when they first came about."
Answer: A

353. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? Adult glass eels can be found off the coast of Maine, but the eels begin their lives in the Sargasso Sea, a biodiverse area in the North Atlantic Ocean where they are born and later return to breed. Though biologists believe they have identified the general area in the Sargasso Sea that is crucial to the endangered eels' survival, little is yet known about how the animals spawn there. Scientists believe that solving the mystery will lead to better conservation of glass eels and their habitat, helping in turn to sustain several other species that rely on them as a food source. A. It discusses a role that glass eels and other species serve in supporting the ecosystem of the Sargasso Sea. B. It indicates that the benefit of understanding glass eels' spawning behavior extends beyond the eels. C. It suggests that scientists are more concerned about other species than about glass eels' habitat. D. It presents a finding from a study that identifies the circumstances required to ensure the survival of glass eels.
Answer: B

355. Based on the texts, the author of Text 1 and the author of Text 2 would most likely agree on which point?

Text 1
For thousands of years, O'odham farmers in the Sonoran desert of the southwestern US and northern Mexico have cultivated organ pipe fruit and beans, sometimes planting these species together so that the organ pipe cacti provide shade for tepary beans. Doing so helps protect tepary beans from the harshest heat and light and thereby helps prevent soil moisture from evaporating.

Text 2 Tepary beans are well adapted to growing in the desert but grow best when shaded. Inspired by O'odham farmers, who often strategically plant tepary beans in the shade of sun-hardy species like organ pipe cacti for protection from the sun and heat, Gary Nabhan and colleagues planted tepary beans in the shade of solar panels in the Sonoran desert and found that the plants grew well, suggesting to Nabhan and colleagues that the panels provide a benefit similar to that provided by organ pipe cacti. A. Organ pipe cacti can provide shade that protects tepary beans from high-intensity heat and light. B. Compared with Nabhan's approach, the O'odham approach has the advantage of producing beans. C. Nabhan's team's method could be refined to more actively prevent soil moisture from evaporating. D. Organ pipe cacti grow best when planted in shaded areas, while tepary beans do not require shade to thrive.
Answer: A

357. Which choice best describes how Aunt Polly is presented in the text? The following text is adapted from Mark Twain's 1876 novel The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. Aunt Polly is having dinner with Tom, her mischievous young nephew.
Aunt Polly asked [Tom] questions that were full of guile, and very deep--for she wanted to trap him into damaging revealments. Like many other simplehearted souls, it was her pet vanity to believe she was endowed with a talent for dark and mysterious diplomacy, and she loved to contemplate her most transparent devices as marvels of low cunning. A. The narrator emphasizes that Aunt Polly's intentions are good even when her behavior is rude. B. The narrator humorously exaggerates Aunt Polly's view of herself as an intellectual. C. The narrator gently makes fun of Aunt Polly's mistaken confidence in her subtlety. D. The narrator characterizes Aunt Polly as being excessively nosy about other people's private lives.
Answer: C

359. Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the researcher's example?

Days

Days per Winter That Lakes Have Surface Ice
200

160

120

80

40

0 80-81
19

05-06 20

Winter

Oulujärvi Mirror Lake Lake Neusiedl

It is common for freshwater lakes near or above a latitude of 45° north of the equator, like Lake Mjøsa in Norway, to accumulate surface ice in winter. A study from 1980 to 2006 showed that, in general, the number of days per winter that such lakes have measurable amounts of surface ice is declining. However, a researcher claimed that some lakes have instead seen an increase in the duration of ice, citing as an example ______ A. both Mirror Lake and Oulujärvi, which had more days of ice in the winter of 2005-06 than they did in the winter of 1980-81. B. both Lake Neusiedl and Oulujärvi, which had fewer than 195 days of ice in the winter of 1980-81. C. Lake Neusiedl, which had more days of ice in the winter of 2005-06 than it did in the winter of 1980-81. D. both Lake Neusiedl and Oulujärvi, which had more than 105 days of ice in the winter of 2005-06.
Answer: C

361. Which choice most logically completes the text?
While mammals collectively exhibit the highest ratio of brain size to body size among vertebrates, a team led by paleontologist Ornella Bertrand demonstrates that for ten million years following the extinction of dinosaurs, that ratio in fact shrank for mammals as they evolved to fill newly vacated ecological niches and their bodies increased in size more rapidly than their brains. Competition for resources tends to favor intelligence and thus large, complex brains, but during this period, the abundance of resources relative to mammalian population numbers likely moderated competition and facilitated an increase in body size. Bertrand and her team reason that as population numbers swelled, competition intensified, creating conditions that ______
A. heightened the advantage that large body size conferred on mammals in certain ecological niches.
B. favored an evolutionary increase in brain size relative to body size among mammals.
C. restricted resources so drastically that mammals struggled to secure enough food to maintain large brain sizes.
D. encouraged mammals with large brain sizes to adapt to a range of ecological niches.
Answer: B

363. Which choice most logically completes the text?
As juveniles, all white-necked jacobin hummingbirds display vibrantly blue head plumage; when they enter adulthood, males retain these blue feathers and most females molt to a drab green hue. However, 28% of adult female jacobins remain identical in coloration to juveniles and adult males. Based on field observations in Panama, a team of researchers reports that while adult males show a clear preference in mate selection for adult females with drab green feathers, they also engage in more antagonistic behavior toward those adult females than toward blue-feathered adult females when competing for resources. Therefore, the team hypothesizes that ______
A. coloration prevents green-feathered adult female jacobins from distinguishing between adult males and blue-feathered adult females.
B. the percentage of blue-feathered females will increase until fewer than half of adult female jacobins are green-feathered.

C. the occurrence of blue head plumage in adult female jacobins is driven by one or more factors not associated with mate attraction. D. adult male jacobins do not act antagonistically toward juvenile jacobins with blue head plumage when competing for resources.
Answer: C
364. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Colonel Virgil Miller was a soldier in the United States 65th Infantry Regiment, a Puerto Rico-based regiment of the US Army. In 2016, the United States Congress honored Miller and the other servicepeople of the 65th Infantry Regiment with one of its highest ______ Congressional Gold Medal. A. honors the B. honors: the C. honors (the D. honors; the
Answer: A
367. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Evelyn Waugh's classic 1945 novel about a college student who visits his friend's country home has a title that is instantly recognizable to many readers: Brideshead Revisited. Waugh's novel originally had a different ______ while writing and editing, Waugh had planned to call the novel A House of the Faith. A. title, though B. title, though; C. title, though, D. title; though
Answer: B
371. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Though its onboard laboratory allowed it to analyze rock samples on-site, the 2011 Mars Curiosity rover was unable to preserve samples for future analysis. ______ when creating the 2020 Mars Perseverance rover, structural analysis engineer Kevin Liu and other members of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory sought to implement a mechanism that could do exactly that. A. Hence, B. Earlier, C. Specifically, D. Similarly,
Answer: A
496. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The Yupno people of the remote Finisterre Range of Papua New Guinea do not measure age and have no artificial means (e.g., clocks) of tracking time, but this does not imply that the Yupno are ______ time. As Rafael Núñez and colleagues have recently shown, the Yupno language contains many temporal expressions, such as apma sonda, which translates to "last week." A. meticulous about B. preoccupied with C. inattentive to D. dependent on
Answer: C
497. As used in the text, what does the word "mastery" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from Alice Dunbar Nelson's 1899 short story "The Fisherman of Pass Christian." Pass Christian is a city in the US state of Mississippi.
The swift breezes on the beach at Pass Christian meet and conflict as though each strove for the mastery of the air. The land-breeze blows down through the pines, resinous, fragrant, cold, bringing breath-like memories of dim, dark woods shaded by myriad pine-needles. The breeze from the Gulf is warm and soft and languorous, blowing up from the south with its suggestion of tropical warmth. A. Skillfulness B. Familiarity C. Comprehension D. Domination
Answer: D
498. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? In the search for new impact craters on Mars, the roles of seismic monitoring and orbital imaging as data sources are ______: when vibrations detected with seismic monitoring indicate roughly where an impact has occurred, researchers can use orbital images of that relatively limited area of the rocky surface to precisely locate a new crater. A. complementary B. redundant C. exhaustive D. interchangeable
Answer: A
501. Which choice best states the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? Vertical gene transfer involves the transmission of genetic material from a parent to offspring; horizontal gene transfer, on the other hand, involves the exchange of genetic material between organisms not in a parent-offspring relationship. While horizontal gene transfer is common among prokaryotes--single-celled organisms, such as the bacteria Brevibacillus borstelensis and Lactobacillus curvatus--it has rarely been observed among eukaryotes (multicellular organisms). However, new studies suggest that horizontal gene transfer is more common in eukaryotes than originally thought. A. It argues that two biological phenomena are more similar than they may initially appear to be. B. It explains why a common perception of a biological process is flawed. C. It indicates a distinction between the mechanics of two kinds of biological processes. D. It contrasts the frequency with which a biological phenomenon has been detected in two categories of organisms.
Answer: D
504. Based on the text, what would be the most reasonable next step for the students to take to accomplish their goal? In 2003, the US state of Ohio enacted rate stability regulations (RSRs), constraining insurance companies' latitude to raise premiums (the recurring fees policyholders pay to maintain insurance policies) once policies are in effect. Although RSRs are intended to benefit consumers, Naoki Aizawa and Ami Ko note that RSRs could curtail insurers' profits to such a degree that insurers abandon the market, thereby reducing the competitive pressure that typically restrains premium prices for newly issued policies. To determine whether this occurred in Ohio, students first collect data on the number of insurers in the state for a few years leading up to and following 2003 and the premium prices for new policies offered by those insurers. A. Compare changes over time in the insurer-number data the students have collected with changes over time in insurer-number data from another state that enacted RSRs but not during the same period B. Compare changes over time in the premium price data the students have collected with changes over time in premium prices for policies that were already in effect during the same period in an otherwise similar state that had not enacted RSRs C. Compare changes over time within each of the two types of data the students have collected with changes over time in the same types of data from Ohio for a period beginning several years after 2003 D. Compare changes over time within each of the two types of data the students have collected with changes over time in analogous data for the same period from an otherwise similar state that had not enacted RSRs
Answer: D
510. Which choice most logically completes the text? Many studies have found a positive association between levels of dissolved organic carbon and mercury in bodies of fresh water undisturbed by human activity. But Enelton Fagnani, José Roberto Guimarã, and Pedro Sérgio Fadini did not find this correlation in an examination of freshwater bodies disturbed by industrial activity, leading some scientists to hypothesize that the association could be particular to undisturbed waters. However, Jeffrey D. Jeremiason and colleagues carried out a study on freshwater bodies disturbed by mining that showed similar results to the studies on undisturbed waters, suggesting that ______ A. disturbances linked to industrial activity affect significantly more bodies of fresh water than disturbances linked to mining do. B. the effects of industrial activity on the association between levels of dissolved organic carbon and mercury should not be taken as indicative of the effects of every type of human disturbance. C. levels of dissolved organic carbon and mercury are both much higher in bodies of fresh water disturbed by industrial activity than they are in bodies of fresh water disturbed by mining. D. Fagnani, Guimarã, and Fadini's study used different methods to measure the concentration of mercury in fresh water than Jeremiason and colleagues' study did.
Answer: B
511. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Astronomers Annie and Edward Maunder meticulously studied historical records of dark areas on the sun's surface known as sunspots. Their work in the late 1800s led to the identification of a period from 1645 to 1715--now known as the Maunder ______ sunspots were notably scarce, a phenomenon that solar physicists continue to investigate. A. Minimum when B. Minimum, when C. Minimum: when D. Minimum--when
Answer: B
517. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? When ordering the branches of the Kvichak River system, cartographers tend to begin with the riverway's lowest point, the Kvichak River. ______ hydrologists begin at the top of the river system, with the American River and other tributaries fed by the riverway's source, the Alaska Range. A. In a similar way, B. For example, C. By contrast, D. In other words,
Answer: C
519. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In a 1948 article titled "The Language of Lines," Brazilian photographer José Yalenti argued that black-and-white photography's distinctive--and in his view, superior-- use of lines is what elevates the medium to the status of fine art. ______ Yalenti insisted that conveying perspective through linear forms is photography's "indisputable and exclusive domain," creating a visual language surpassing even celebrated painters' works. A. However, B. Even so, C. Indeed, D. In any case,
Answer: C
520. The student wants to identify who wrote the Árya-Siddhánta. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Aryabhata (476-550 CE) was an Indian astronomer and mathematician. He is the author of the Árya-Siddhánta. The Árya-Siddhánta is a text on ancient Hindu astronomy. It is a lost text. It is only known because other writers have mentioned it. A. The Árya-Siddhánta is a text on ancient Hindu astronomy. B. The Árya-Siddhánta was written by Aryabhata, an Indian astronomer and mathematician. C. The Árya-Siddhánta is a lost text. D. An Indian astronomer and mathematician who lived from 476 to 550 CE wrote a text that is now lost.
Answer: B
643. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? ______ the mythological and heroic subject matter often found in works by Eugène Emmanuel Amaury Pineux Duval and other establishment figures, Jean-BaptisteCamille Corot's painting A Girl Reading instead focuses on something decidedly mundane: an ordinary young woman absorbed in reading a book. A. Eschewing B. Appraising C. Caricaturing D. Expounding
Answer: A
650. According to the text, what draws divers and scientists to blue holes such as the Dahab Blue Hole and the Taam Ja' Blue Hole? Blue holes, such as the Dahab Blue Hole in Egypt, are large marine sinkholes. They are typically located in areas where the ocean bedrock is made of soluble material (e.g., limestone) because rock erosion is crucial to their formation. Because of the preserved fossils they contain, blue holes attract numerous divers and scientists. Currently, the Taam Ja' Blue Hole in Chetumal Bay, Mexico, is the deepest blue hole on record, measured by Laura Carrillo and colleagues to be at least 420 meters below sea level. A. A desire to witness the erosion of the rocks in the blue holes B. A hope to observe fossils that are located in the blue holes C. A commitment to protecting the limestone and other soluble materials in the blue holes D. An interest in comparing the depths of the Dahab Blue Hole and the Taam Ja' Blue Hole to the depths of other blue holes
Answer: B
653. Which quotation from a translation of The Underdogs most effectively illustrates the claim? The Underdogs is a 1915 novel by Mariano Azuela, originally written in Spanish. In the novel, Azuela makes a comparison using natural imagery to convey the mental state of the protagonist, Demetrio: ______ A. "Demetrio suppressed a sigh. Memories crowded and buzzed through his brain like bees about a hive." B. "Yet he was previous; an hour or more elapsed with no sound or stir save the song of the locust in the brush or the frog stirring in his mudhole." C. "At this hour, as usual, the calcinated rocks, the sun-burnt branches, and the dry weeds faded into the semi-obscurity of the shadows." D. "Demetrio laid a hand on his hair which covered his ears, and stretching himself out for a long time, seemed to be lost in thought."
Answer: A
657. Which choice most logically completes the text? The advent of online streaming has led many music listeners to drift away from ownership of music (through downloads or through physical media such as compact discs) and toward the streaming services YouTube Music and Jango, among others. Datta et al. studied the impact of this change on the variety of music that listeners consume. The researchers reasoned that the ownership model of music assigns a cost per song to acquiring a variety of music, while streaming services typically charge a flat fee for access to an entire music catalog, making variety free, which suggests that ______ A. the music choices of listeners who use streaming services would likely be more varied than those of listeners who do not use streaming services. B. listeners who prefer to purchase compact discs rather than use a service such as YouTube Music or Jango would tend to listen to older music. C. music publishers who choose to forgo releasing music on physical media are likely to see no change in revenue. D. listeners who use streaming services would be more likely to give physical copies of music as gifts to others than to purchase physical copies for themselves.
Answer: A
661. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? George Eliot's classic 1860 novel about a young girl named Maggie Tulliver has a title that is instantly recognizable to many readers: The Mill on the Floss. Eliot's novel originally had a different ______ while writing and editing, Eliot had planned to call the novel Sister Maggie. A. title, though, B. title, though; C. title; though D. title, though
Answer: D
664. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? As Iestyn Barr and his team of researchers discovered when establishing the glacial timeline of Antarctica, the Transantarctic Mountains--a 3,500-km mountain range spanning the continent--are home to glaciers of at least 60 million years in age. ______ the researchers concluded, Antarctica had glaciers long before the formation of its continent-wide ice sheet 34 million years ago. A. Nevertheless, B. Thus, C. Even so, D. By contrast,
Answer: B
790. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Microplastics are a common pollutant in large masses of water like rivers. High concentrations and ______ among particles--variations in size, shape, and material-- make it onerous to comprehensively classify the microplastics in a water sample, so Sinan Genc et al. are exploring a device to help quickly and accurately identify certain characteristics. A. incompatibilities B. inconsistencies C. disruptions D. restraints
Answer: B
796. Which choice best describes the relationship between the two texts? Text 1 Siberian aster (Eurybia sibirica) plants are native to Alaska, where harsh conditions have historically impeded potential invasive species. As the boreal climate has warmed in recent decades, however, honey clover (Melilotus albus) plants have established themselves in Alaska. Previous research conducted in non-boreal ecosystems has documented warming-induced increases in summer temperatures benefiting invasive species more than native species.
Text 2 At a site near Fairbanks, Alaska, Christa Mulder and Katie Spellman tracked E. sibirica and M. albus, along with other native and invasive species, over several years. They observed that although average summer temperatures were substantially higher in some years of the study than in others, neither E. sibirica nor M. albus showed any significant variation in summer growth patterns from year to year. A. Text 2 describes a methodology that helps researchers avoid a problem encountered in the studies discussed in Text 1. B. Text 2 explains a study that suggests an alternative explanation for the trend observed in the research discussed in Text 1. C. Text 2 presents a finding that casts doubt on the generalizability of the research discussed in Text 1. D. Text 2 discusses an observation that challenges the validity of the findings described in Text 1.
Answer: C
800. Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researchers' conclusion? In subtropical Asia, Apis dorsata (giant honeybee) plays an essential role in pollinating a wide variety of crops and wild plants. To study how different agricultural land covers affect the species, Rika Raffiudin and colleagues monitored the foraging activity of the bees as well as the pollen content of the honey from A. dorsata colonies at two sites in Indonesia: Kampar, characterized by its surrounding monoculture farms (growing a single crop), and Kerinci, a forest-agriculture site where multiple crops, including hot peppers and coffee, are grown nearby. The researchers concluded that a lack of crop variety may reduce total pollen collection by A. dorsata. A. Significantly fewer bees were observed engaging in foraging activities with the crops surrounding Kerinci than with the crops surrounding Kampar. B. Pollen in honey samples from Kampar bee colonies was predominantly sourced from a single plant species, whereas pollen in honey samples from Kerinci bee colonies was sourced from multiple different plant species. C. Honey samples from Kerinci bee colonies contained significantly higher concentrations of pollen than honey samples from Kampar bee colonies did. D. In one Kerinci bee colony, a greater proportion of bees returned to their nests with pollen than returned without pollen, whereas the inverse was observed in a second Kerinci bee colony.
Answer: C
805. Which choice most logically completes the text? Whereas Joan Lockard's 1984 study of captive gorillas reported more right-handedness than left-handedness, Jane Goodall's 1963 study of wild chimpanzees did not. According to a meta-analysis of studies of nonhuman primates, captive populations are more likely to be described as right-handed than wild populations are. Statistical analysis indicates a handedness study would need a minimum of 176 individuals to show a representative result; however, the study by Lockard included a total population of 8, and the study by Goodall included a total population of 8. This suggests that ______ A. the study by Lockard reliably represents handedness in captive primates, but the study by Goodall likely does not reliably represent handedness in wild primates. B. the study by Lockard reliably represents handedness in captive primates but not in wild primates. C. neither the study by Lockard nor the study by Goodall provides sufficient evidence to make a meaningful comparison about handedness in primates. D. Goodall likely underestimated the prevalence of right-handedness among the wild chimpanzees in the study.
Answer: C
941. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? In a section of a 1976 essay discussing cinema of the United States, James Baldwin observed that Lady Sings the Blues (1972), a biographical film about jazz singer Billie Holiday, can be said to reflect Holiday's life and the experiences of Black Americans only "by courtesy." According to Baldwin, the failure of this film to authentically represent its subject matter is indicative of a larger trend in films of the era: rather than leveraging the medium's potential to confront difficult truths, filmmakers and studios often resorted to platitudes about contemporary US society. A. It illustrates a view of Baldwin's that the text explains departed substantially from the consensus view held by US film critics. B. It characterizes the nature of the disconnect Baldwin identified between reality and how it was represented in US cinema. C. It conveys Baldwin's rejection of contemporary US cinema in favor of earlier films that are more authentic representations of society. D. It expresses Baldwin's initial reaction to a US film that the text suggests he would later reconsider.
Answer: B
944. Information in the text best supports which statement about Azara's night monkeys? Optimal foraging theory (OFT) holds that animals' foraging behaviors reflect cost-benefit trade-offs that vary by species and with dynamic ecological circumstances. One such circumstance is lunar intensity, which Nathan Upham and John Hafner found to be negatively associated with foraging by desert kangaroo rats but Eduardo Fernández-Duque and colleagues found to be positively associated with foraging by Azara's night monkeys. This discrepancy is explicable in terms of OFT: the monkeys' greater reliance on vision means that higher lunar intensity benefits them more than it benefits the kangaroo rats. A. If the monkeys' foraging behavior under increased lunar intensity actually reflects a cost-benefit trade-off, their behavior should be more similar to that of desert kangaroo rats than it is. B. If increased lunar intensity imposed the same costs on the monkeys that it imposes on desert kangaroo rats, there would be no association between lunar intensity and the monkeys' foraging. C. If the advantages that the monkeys gain from increased lunar intensity explain the change in their foraging behavior, those advantages are likely shared by some other species that are not heavily reliant on vision. D. If increased lunar intensity creates any disadvantages for the monkeys, those disadvantages are more than compensated for by the advantages that the monkeys gain.
Answer: D
947. Which choice most effectively uses a quotation from a translation of The Clouds to illustrate the claim? The Clouds is a 423 BCE play by Aristophanes, originally written in ancient Greek. At the time, professional intellectuals called sophists taught paying customers a variety of subjects and sometimes engaged in what would now be described as research. Aristophanes satirizes sophists' practices and views as foolish, as seen when the character ______ A. Socrates, a sophist, explains why he studies astronomy while sitting in a basket hanging a few feet off the ground, saying, "I should not have rightly discovered things celestial if I had not suspended the intellect, and mixed the thought in a subtle form with its kindred air." B. Strepsiades encourages his son to learn to be a sophist, saying, "Go, I entreat you, dearest of men, go and be taught." C. Socrates, a sophist, says to a customer, "You straightaway forget whatever you learn. For what now was the first thing you were taught? Tell me." D. Strepsiades, after taking lessons from a sophist, says to his son, "Approach, that you may know more; and I will tell you a thing, by learning which you will be a man. But see that you do not teach this to any one."
Answer: A
950. Which choice most logically completes the text? Scientists recently created a model to predict how increasing pest activity will affect future mammal population sizes in US national forests. Unfortunately, when the model is applied to large forests, its predictions for large-mammal populations are too high, and when applied to small forests, its predictions for small-mammal populations are too high. Salmon-Challis National Forest in Idaho is a large forest, covering more than 4 million acres. If used to evaluate the effect of increasing pest activity on this forest in ten years, the model would likely therefore ______ A. reflect factors affecting large mammals other than increasing pest activity. B. overestimate the actual population sizes of large mammals. C. ignore the predator-prey relationships between large and small mammals. D. exaggerate the effect of increasing pest activity on small mammals.
Answer: B
952. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? A 2024 study cataloged all the trees in Amsterdam to evaluate the biodiversity of the city's urban forest. The researchers, finding that administrative unit GK11 had a 0.62 ratio of native to non-native trees, ______ efforts to improve the biodiversity of the trees in that unit and other areas with a similarly moderate ratio. A. recommending B. recommended C. to recommend D. having recommended
Answer: B
954. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Working on an unimaginably small scale of billionths of a meter, nanoengineers have found ways to leverage gold ______ to detect biomarkers of certain diseases. A. nanoparticle's properties B. nanoparticles properties C. nanoparticles' properties' D. nanoparticles' properties
Answer: D
955. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Bertie Marshall, a key figure in the history of steel band music in Trinidad and Tobago, made several innovations to the steel ______ wheels so the instrument could be easily transported during Carnival, a cover to protect the pans from the sun, and amplification so the sound of the pans could be better heard over large crowds and other instrumentation. A. drum: B. drum C. drum; D. drum,
Answer: A
959. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Charles Demuth's 1931 painting Chimney and Water Tower is a classic Precisionist work. The Precisionists strove for cold, machine-like perfection, with crisp lines, geometric shapes, and smooth, brushstroke-free surfaces. ______ Precisionist works often feature skyscrapers, bridges, and factories, highlighting these angular structures' engineered symmetry. A. In the end, B. That said, C. Accordingly, D. However,
Answer: C
962. The student wants to place the 1821 Declaration of Independence in the context of Valle's changing political beliefs. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Leaders of the Province of Guatemala proclaimed independence for Central America from the Spanish Empire on September 15, 1821. The accompanying Declaration of Independence was written by Honduran scholar and politician José Cecilio del Valle. The 1812 Spanish Constitution had provided some degree of independence for Central America, but it was repealed by the Spanish king in 1814. Valle, a loyal advisor to the Spanish Empire's administrators in Central America, had long opposed independence. He changed his mind after Colonel Rafael del Riego's 1820 revolt, which demanded the return of rights lost in 1814. A. The writing of Central America's Declaration of Independence may not have happened were it not for Colonel Riego's 1820 revolt. B. A change in Valle's political beliefs that occurred when the Spanish king repealed the 1812 constitution led to Valle writing Central America's Declaration of Independence. C. Long an opponent of Central American independence, Valle changed his mind after an 1820 revolt and wrote the 1821 declaration. D. Colonel Riego's revolt was the inspiration that Valle, a long-standing opponent of Central American independence, needed to change his political beliefs.
Answer: C
1096. Which choice most logically completes the text? By 3500 BCE, the Botai, a Eurasian steppe people, were engaged in the earliest known horse husbandry practices, such as corralling. Over the next several centuries, however, there is no evidence of Botai horses outside the relatively small Botai homeland--e.g., the CPONT horse strand, dominant in what is now Russia no later than 3089 BCE, shows no Botai interaction--and modern domestic horses (strand DOM2) emerged from a non-Botai lineage by around 2200 BCE. The introduction of selective breeding for long-distance transport capabilities enabled DOM2 to spread quickly, becoming dominant in what is now Turkey by 2125 BCE and throughout Eurasia by the late 2nd millennium BCE. Together, these findings suggest that ______ A. the Botai may have maintained horses for purposes other than long-distance travel, and their husbandry likely did not result in Botai horses having clear advantages over other horse strains. B. the lack of interaction between Botai horses and CPONT horses is likely attributable to Botai horses being outcompeted by DOM2 horses due to the latter's superior long-distance travel capabilities. C. while the Botai's husbandry likely did not extend to the selective breeding of horses to spread particular traits, the Botai do appear to have used horses as a means of long-distance transportation. D. although Botai horses may not have spread to other regions, the horse husbandry practices of the Botai people likely did, though not until some point between 3089 BCE and 2200 BCE.
Answer: A
1098. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Physical barriers, chemical defenses, and protein defenses are the three main categories of plant defense mechanisms. The alfalfa plant uses a ______ the plants produce proteins that are toxic to certain herbivorous insects. A. protein defense B. protein defense, C. protein defense: D. protein defense and
Answer: C
1106. The student wants to emphasize a difference between the two seaweeds. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The human tongue contains taste receptors for a rich, savory flavor called umami. Umami is triggered by the compounds in a variety of foods, including beef and black olives. Participants in a study tasted a sample of winged kelp, a type of brown seaweed. They rated its umami intensity as moderate. The participants tasted a sample of rausu-konbu, another type of brown seaweed. They rated its umami intensity as high. A. Some types of brown seaweed, like winged kelp and rausu-konbu, trigger umami flavor in human taste buds. B. Winged kelp is a type of brown seaweed, but so is rausu-konbu. C. After tasting two types of brown seaweed, winged kelp and rausu-konbu, participants in a study found rausu-konbu's umami flavor to be the more intense of the two. D. While winged kelp and rausu-konbu contain umami flavor, umami can also be found in beef and black olives.
Answer: C
1108. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize the geographic similarities between the two newspapers? Throughout the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, populations of Black Americans increased in many cities throughout the state of New York.

During this time, many Black newspapers were founded. The newspapers were largely by and for the Black communities in which they were based. The New York Recorder ran from 1953 to 1987 in New York City, New York. The Syracuse Gazette News Weekly ran from 1973 to 1976 in Syracuse, New York. A. The New York Recorder was one of many Black newspapers to spring up in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, debuting in 1953 and later followed by the Syracuse Gazette News Weekly in 1973. B. Many Black newspapers, such as the New York Recorder, which was founded in 1953, sprung up in cities throughout New York to provide a voice for their growing Black communities. C. From 1953 to 1987, the New York Recorder served the Black community of New York City, New York, as did the Syracuse Gazette News Weekly. D. The New York Recorder and the Syracuse Gazette News Weekly, both based in New York, are among the many Black newspapers that sprung up in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries to provide a voice to the growing Black communities throughout the state.
Answer: D
1231. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The Dhaka Stock Exchange in Dhaka, Bangladesh, is a dedicated exchange for investing in companies operating in Bangladesh, ensuring those companies receive certain regulatory oversight. Knowing this can ______ potential investors' worries about bureaucratic minutiae and thereby allow them to instead focus on identifying sound business opportunities. A. assuage B. convey C. amplify D. designate
Answer: A
1232. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Studying sales and price data for 325 brands of mineral water, cooking sauces, breakfast cereals, and other consumer packaged goods, Koushyar Rajavi and colleagues found that pricing, though hardly ______ brand success, made a much less pronounced contribution to brand success than retail distribution breadth did. A. contingent on B. determinative of C. immaterial to D. uncharacteristic of
Answer: C
1233. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? A meta-analysis of research on stemflow (precipitation that flows down a tree's trunk) moved beyond capturing broad points of consensus (e.g., that the water's chemical components are affected by tree species) to ______ narrower areas where insight is lacking, pinpointing stemflow-mediated nutrient dynamics in primarily coniferous forests as one topic warranting further investigation. A. legitimize B. delineate C. revitalize D. implicate
Answer: B
1234. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Continental Divide Electric Cooperative and other member-owned rural electric cooperatives can be ______ the other main types of US electrical utilities by their chosen governance models. Although public power utilities are, like cooperatives, not-for-profit enterprises, they are owned and run by local governments; investorowned utilities, meanwhile, are managed by private boards for the benefit of shareholders. A. protected against B. integrated with C. established by D. distinguished from
Answer: D
1235. As used in the text, what does the underlined figurative phrase most nearly mean? The following text is from William Carlos Williams's 1925 creative nonfiction book In the American Grain. Williams is discussing how works by nineteenth-century US poet and fiction writer Edgar Allan Poe were received by American readers.
Poe must suffer by his originality. Invent that which is new, even if it be made of pine from your own yard, and there's none to know what you have done. It is because there's no name. This is the cause of Poe's lack of recognition. He was American. He was the astounding, inconceivable growth of his locality. A. Personal experiences that are hard for others to understand B. Elements of the culture in which you live C. Inspiration you received while reading independently D. Ideas you have never previously expressed
Answer: B
1236. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? British colonies in North America instituted laws regulating textiles and accessories as well as the colors and design of clothing. While the laws exerted some influence on public-facing displays, compliance was often merely ______: historical evidence suggests that some restricted items were privately used and exchanged. A. theoretical B. clandestine C. superficial D. subversive
Answer: C
1237. Which choice best describes the main purpose of the text? Falling out of favor after its ascendancy in the 1950s-1970s, Brutalist architecture--known for massiveness, awkward proportions, and display of raw industrial materials--subverts traditional standards of architectural beauty. But whereas for decades the style's defiance of conventional taste was denigrated as alienating, many Brutalist icons have recently begun to gain defenders enthralled by the structures' awe-inspiring sculptural features, such as the use of massive interlocking geometric forms that appear to defy gravity seen in the John P. Robarts Library in Toronto, Canada. A. To explain how a recent reconsideration of characteristic traits of Brutalism has in turn encouraged a reevaluation of architecture's traditional aesthetic standards B. To justify the controversial aesthetic choices of Brutalist architects by pointing out the ways that they adhere to conventional tastes more closely than is typically acknowledged C. To detail the historical circumstances that account for Brutalism's loss of favor after the 1970s and its later resurgence in public opinion D. To describe how an emergent trend in the public reception of Brutalist architecture reflects a shift in the perception of its aesthetic qualities
Answer: D
1238. Based on the texts, how would the author of Text 2 most likely characterize the study conducted by Ifrim, Gale, and colleagues in Text 1? Text 1 With a shell that measured 1.7 meters, the extinct mollusk Parapuzosia seppenradensis is the largest ammonite in the fossil record. Ever since fossilized remains of this large ammonite were first discovered in 1895, scientists have been perplexed by its size. After examining 154 ammonite fossils including P. seppenradensis fossils from Montana and Parapuzosia leptophylla (a smaller ammonite species) fossils from Austria, paleontologist Christina Ifrim, Andrew S. Gale, and colleagues concluded that P. seppenradensis may have evolved from P. leptophylla and gradually increased in size as larger ammonites were better able to escape being preyed on by mosasaurs.

Text 2 Christina Ifrim and her team have expanded our understanding of the evolutionary history of ammonites in general, but their study has some gaps that will require additional research to fill. For instance, there's evidence that mosasaurs preyed on ammonites, but there's no direct evidence that they interacted specifically with P. seppenradensis. A. It is useful for the field as a whole, but a portion of it might be unfounded. B. It is correct with regard to P. seppenradensis, but its claims about P. leptophylla are likely overstated. C. It is likely to become outdated quickly, but it features an impressive amount of data. D. It is relevant to the study of ammonites, but it overlooks the evolutionary history of mosasaurs.
Answer: A

1239. The author of the text makes which point about MoMA's choice to include Pac-Man in the exhibition? The Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York City exhibits some video games as works of art. The 2006 game Dwarf Fortress, like other highly complex games, is shown only in video footage because it would be impractical to make the game available for visitors to play in the museum. And while this does mean that the interactive element of such games is not fully represented, MoMA's choice to make simpler games, like Pac-Man from 1980, playable in the exhibition shows that the museum is trying to represent the interactivity of games when practical. A. MoMA wanted the exhibition to represent the experience of playing video games. B. MoMA believes that video games in general should be considered works of art. C. MoMA determined that most of the video games in the exhibition could be adequately represented in a video-only presentation. D. MoMA believes that most of the video games in the exhibition would be impractical to display in a playable form.
Answer: A

1240. What does the text most strongly suggest about Namasenda's recordings? By combining dense synthesizer arrangements and metallic percussion with vocals electronically shifted in pitch above the natural range of lead vocalist Laura Les, the American duo 100 gecs exemplifies the style of contemporary electronic music known as hyperpop. This style is elastic enough to include Namasenda, who incorporates hip-hop rhythms into the hyperpop sound, as well. The style's inclusivity has been encouraged--excessively so, many fans say--by the music-streaming service Spotify, whose popular playlist of hyperpop songs balances core figures with distinct outliers, like 1980s icon Kate Bush. A. Her recordings' inclusion on the Spotify playlist facilitated the inclusion of recordings by Kate Bush. B. Her recordings suggest that she has been unduly influenced by Spotify's hyperpop playlist. C. Her recordings feature a stylistic element that is absent from the recordings of 100 gecs. D. While some of her recordings conform to the model perfected by 100 gecs, others reject it outright.
Answer: C

1241. Which finding, if true, would most directly weaken the researcher's claim?
The Rarámuri language of northern Mexico has 20 vowel and consonant sounds. In contrast, the Hadza language of eastern Africa has 70. Why would languages differ in this way? One researcher has claimed that when modern humans arose in Africa, they spoke a single language, but as humans gradually spread throughout Africa and then around the globe, that language developed into new languages. Those developed into still more languages as small bands of humans spread even farther, with each new language retaining fewer sounds from humanity's original language.
A. Languages that emerged in Europe and Western Asia tend to have more sounds than languages that emerged in Africa do.
B. A wider range of sounds is found across the languages of Africa as a whole than across the languages of South America as a whole.
C. Languages that emerged in Central America tend to have fewer sounds than languages that emerged in Western Europe do, and Central America is farther away from Africa than Western Europe is.
D. The number of sounds is fairly consistent across the various languages that emerged in the last parts of Africa to be settled by humans.
Answer: A

1242. Which choice best describes data in the table that support the city planner's conclusion?

Ranking of Environmental and Sociocultural Benefits of Urban Agriculture (scale of 1 to 25; 1 = highest)

Social or ecological service

Project leaders Stakeholders General public

improvement of physical health

5

4

7

contribution to political fulfillment

21

23

24

preservation of cultural knowledge and heritage

8

15

13

prevention of soil erosion

13

11

23

enhancement of pollination

1

7

12

Esther Sanyé-Mengual, Kathrin Specht, and their team surveyed three groups of people in Bologna, Italy--leaders of urban agriculture projects, stakeholders in urban agriculture (e.g., food researchers and urban farming associations), and the general public--to compare their views about the extent to which urban agriculture contributes to 25 social or ecological services that the team identified. The researchers used these ratings to rank the services for each group, with a ranking of 1 indicating that a group perceives that urban agriculture benefits that service the most. Using only the rankings shown in the table, a city planner in Bologna who is promoting a new urban agriculture project concludes that advertisements aimed at project leaders should emphasize the project's benefit to the enhancement of pollination.

A. The enhancement of pollination was ranked higher for project leaders than were the other four services.

B. The enhancement of pollination was ranked higher for project leaders than it was for stakeholders.

C. The contribution to political fulfillment was ranked higher for project leaders than was the enhancement of pollination.

D. The improvement of physical health was ranked lower for project leaders than it was for the general public.

Answer: A

1243. Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researchers' conclusion about their hypothesis?
When products ordered online are out of stock (OOS), retailers can mitigate consumer frustration by offering discounts for future orders or suggesting substitutions. Hypothesizing that offering to replace an OOS grocery item (e.g., potato chips) with a similar item the consumer previously purchased increases substitution acceptance rates and that this increase is more pronounced for same-flavor substitutions than for same-brand substitutions, Dong Hoang and Els Breugelmans presented two groups of consumers with different mixes of grocery products and recorded their willingness to either reject or accept proposed substitutions of both types. The researchers concluded that the first part of their hypothesis was better supported than the second part was.
A. Although past-purchase matching reduced overall substitution rejection rates in both consumer groups, a statistically significant preference for previously purchased same-flavor substitutions over previously purchased same-brand substitutions was observed in only one of the groups.
B. Although past-purchase matching decreased rejection rates for both same-flavor substitutions and same-brand substitutions in only one of the two consumer groups, the observed difference between the two groups was not statistically significant.
C. Past-purchase matching resulted in notably lower substitution rejection rates in both consumer groups, and the observed positive effect of past-purchase matching was much stronger for same-flavor substitutions than for same-brand substitutions in both groups.
D. Past-purchase matching increased rejection rates for same-brand substitutions in one of the two consumer groups but not the other, and past-purchase matching had no observable effect on rejection rates for same-flavor substitutions in either of the consumer groups.
Answer: A

1244. Which choice most logically completes the text?
All stainless steel contains varying amounts of iron, carbon, and corrosion-inhibiting chromium. However, ferritic stainless steel, often used for induction cookers, contains a higher percentage of chromium (at least 10.5%) than does austenitic stainless steel and a higher concentration of iron, which is responsible for its magnetic properties. Unlike ferritic stainless steel, austenitic stainless steel has a face-centered cubic crystalline structure resulting from the addition of nickel to the alloy. Austenitic stainless steel has two subtypes: the 200 series, often used for washing machines, and the 300 series, which has more nickel than the 200 series and is often used for mining and chemical equipment or compensators. Thus, stainless steel used to manufacture ______
A. induction cookers will have a face-centered cubic crystalline structure.
B. compensators will have similar magnetic properties to stainless steel used to manufacture induction cookers.
C. mining and chemical equipment will have a concentration of chromium lower than 10.5%, while stainless steel used to manufacture washing machines will not.
D. washing machines will have a lower percentage of chromium in its composition than stainless steel used for induction cookers will.
Answer: D

1245. Which choice most logically completes the text? It is hard for publishers and printers to create very long books that balance the requirements of readability, durability, and cost. Among some exceptionally long novels published in English, Victor Hugo's Les Misérables (translated from French) was published in a 1,194-page edition and runs to an estimated 770,000 words, while John Dos Passos's U.S.A. (written originally in English) was published in a 1,239-page edition and runs to an estimated 515,000 words. This indicates that ______ A. the edition of Les Misérables is printed on thinner paper than the edition of U.S.A. B. the edition of U.S.A. has fewer words per page than the edition of Les Misérables. C. translating a text from French to English is likely to increase the word count. D. page count is likely to be a more reliable indicator of how long it takes to read a book than word count.
Answer: B

1246. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In a list titled "Things That Are Unpleasant to See" from Sei Shnagon's Pillow Book, the author bemoans dirty carriage windows, walking too hurriedly, and pulledback collars. Such lists, observed sharply yet simply by Shnagon, who served as a lady-in-waiting to Empress Teishi in the tenth century, ______ the daily minutiae of Japanese courtly life. A. reveals B. reveal C. to reveal D. was revealing
Answer: B

1247. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? "Karst," a term referring to limestone terrain riddled with caves or sinkholes, is the focus of an essay by Barbara ______ in Barry Lopez and Debra Gwartney's Home Ground: A Guide to the American Landscape, the essay helps illustrate the rich landscape vocabulary of North America. A. Kingsolver and included B. Kingsolver. Included C. Kingsolver included D. Kingsolver, included
Answer: B

1248. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In 2022 Kevin Del Águila, who studies environmental DNA, joined a research team for a 38-day expedition to Alto Mayo, a populous area in the north of Peru. It had long been assumed that regions with large human populations would be unlikely to yield discoveries of new species. Nevertheless, Del Águila and the other team members ______ for such species in Alto Mayo found 27 of them, including 3 new amphibian species. A. searching B. had searched C. searched D. search
Answer: A

1249. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? To appreciate what scholars believe to be the allegorical intent of Gentileschi's 17th-century painting ______ to embody the power of female artists in the realm of visual arts--a viewer must become familiar with the painting's symbolic elements. A. La Pittura, namely B. La Pittura--namely, C. La Pittura, namely-- D. La Pittura, namely,
Answer: D

1250. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In 2022, Carnegie Hall's digital Timeline of African American Music was ______ input from George Starks, Maureen Mahon, and other prominent scholars--to integrate text and music clips, thereby inviting users to experience genres such as bebop and gospel as well as read about them. A. redesigned, with B. redesigned with C. redesigned--with D. redesigned. With
Answer: B

1251. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In 1813, French paleontologist Georges Cuvier proposed that Earth's geologic features are shaped by catastrophic events. This theory ______ to explain geological evolution, though widely accepted for a time, eventually lost favor among members of the scientific community. A. was attempting B. attempted C. attempting D. attempts
Answer: C

1252. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The Hornbostel-Sachs system classifies musical instruments by how they produce sound. For example, an instrument that is popular in Vietnam called the àn bu produces sound primarily through the vibration of its strings. ______ under the Hornbostel-Sachs system, the àn bu is a chordophone. A. Thus, B. Instead, C. Similarly, D. Furthermore,
Answer: A

1253. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? If you could travel in a spaceship to Carpo, one of Jupiter's many moons, you'd find a moon with a prograde orbit. This means that Carpo orbits Jupiter in the same direction that Jupiter rotates on its axis. ______ at Herse, another Jovian moon, you'd find an example of a retrograde orbit, with the moon revolving around Jupiter in the opposite direction. A. Specifically, B. For example, C. In other words, D. Elsewhere,
Answer: D

1254. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? As fundamental as the question may seem, biologists have failed to reach consensus on what a species is: some cite the genetic species concept (Baker and Bradley 2006), while others adhere to the Darwinian species concept (Jolly 2014). ______ those supporting a pluralist approach--in place of a single, monistic concept-- argue that a diversity of species concepts fits their equally diverse applications within the discipline. A. However, some scholars posit that, outside the human desire to name things, species don't exist; B. Counterintuitively, this lack of agreement may not be without its virtues; C. Accordingly, many biologists seek to find a universal species concept; D. Indeed, this definitional stalemate is widely known as the species problem;
Answer: B

1255. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize a similarity between the two sculptures?
Richard Serra is an American artist. He is known for his large metal sculptures. His large sculpture Rounds: Equal Weight, Unequal Measure is made of weathering steel. It is 17 feet wide and 7 feet tall. His large sculpture Circuit is made of hot-rolled steel. It is 24 feet wide and 1 foot tall.
A. Circuit is one of artist Richard Serra's large metal sculptures.
B. Rounds: Equal Weight, Unequal Measure and Circuit are both large metal sculptures by artist Richard Serra.
C. Richard Serra's Rounds: Equal Weight, Unequal Measure is 17 feet wide and 7 feet tall.
D. Rounds: Equal Weight, Unequal Measure is made from a different kind of steel than Circuit.
Answer: B

1256. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize when Makeba became popular?
South African singer Miriam Makeba rose to fame in the 1960s for her jazz-inflected renditions of traditional Xhosa songs. The Xhosa song "Olilili" appears on her 1960 album Miriam Makeba. She also became known for her versions of many popular European and American songs, such as "For What It's Worth." "For What It's Worth" was originally made popular by the American rock band Buffalo Springfield. Makeba's version appears on her 1970 album Keep Me in Mind.
A. The song "Olilili" appears on Miriam Makeba's album Miriam Makeba, which she released in 1960.
B. Originally made popular by Buffalo Springfield, the song "For What It's Worth" appears on Miriam Makeba's 1970 album Keep Me in Mind.
C. The songs "Olilili" and "For What It's Worth" can both be found on albums recorded by the South African singer Miriam Makeba.
D. Known for her renditions of both traditional Xhosa songs and songs made popular by European and American artists, South African singer Miriam Makeba rose to fame in the 1960s.
Answer: D

1257. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize how long Lauren Woolstencroft competed in the Paralympic Games?
The Paralympic Games are a series of international sporting events involving athletes with an impairment. A gold medal indicates that an athlete finished in first place. Priya Cooper competed as a Paralympic swimmer from 1992 to 2000. She won twenty-four medals, fifteen of which were gold. Lauren Woolstencroft competed as a Paralympic alpine skier from 2002 to 2010. She won ten medals, eight of which were gold.
A. Swimmer Priya Cooper made her Paralympic debut in 1992, while alpine skier Lauren Woolstencroft made her debut in 2002.
B. An accomplished Paralympian with multiple gold medal wins, Lauren Woolstencroft competed as an alpine skier from 2002 to 2010.
C. Alpine skiing, a sport in which Lauren Woolstencroft took home eight gold medals, has been an event at the Paralympic Games since 1976.
D. During her career as a Paralympic alpine skier, Lauren Woolstencroft took home a total of ten medals, eight of which were gold.
Answer: B

1381. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Scleractinian corals--stony ones like lettuce leaf corals and rice corals--are habitat builders that form the foundations of coral reef ecosystems, typically with multiple species creating a single reef. The ______ of a reef depends in large part on this redundancy, which reduces the risk of a vital function ceasing if one of the species should succumb to a vulnerability. A. conformity B. distribution C. versatility D. resiliency
Answer: D

1387. Assuming the data in the table are broadly representative, do the data support the researcher's hypothesis as presented in the text?

Average Frontation Angle for Five Species, by Family, Habitat, and Preferred Substrate

Species

Family Habitat Preferred substrate Frontation angle (°)

Vulpes lagopus

Canidae open terrestrial

54.89

Nyctereutes procyonoides Canidae closed arboreal

56.51

Lynx lynx

Felidae closed terrestrial

65.67

Leptailurus serval

Felidae open terrestrial

65.80

Leopardus wiedii

Felidae closed arboreal

67.61

By examining trait distributions across phylogenetic lineages, evolutionary biologists can determine whether trait similarities result from shared ancestry, leading to consistent presence of the trait among closely related species, or from convergent evolution under similar selective pressures, leading to the independent appearance of the trait in more distantly related species occupying similar ecological niches. Hypothesizing that orbit (eye socket) orientation in the families Canidae and Felidae (both within the order Carnivora) is primarily driven by the latter mechanism, a researcher measured frontation angles--the extent to which orbits face downward or upward--in felid and canid species occupying various habitats and preferring different substrates.

A. No, because frontation angles are relatively consistent across ecological categories, with values for species inhabiting closed arboreal habitats and species inhabiting open terrestrial habitats ranging from 56.51 to 67.61 and from 54.89 to 65.80, respectively

B. Yes, because frontation angles show a moderately strong relationship with ecological niches, with two out of the three species with the highest frontation angles either inhabiting closed habitats or preferring terrestrial substrates

C. No, because frontation angles cluster by taxonomic family rather than by ecological categories, with similar values measured for species from the same family despite their occupation of different ecological niches

D. Yes, because frontation angles are lower for canid species than for felid species regardless of habitat or preferred substrate, with values for species from the same taxonomic family clustering in a relatively narrow range

Answer: C

1396. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? To appreciate what scholars believe to be the allegorical intent of Hokusai's 19th-century painting ______ to embody the influence perspective has on one's view of the natural world--a viewer must become familiar with the painting's symbolic elements. A. The Great Wave off Kanagawa, namely, B. The Great Wave off Kanagawa, namely C. The Great Wave off Kanagawa--namely, D. The Great Wave off Kanagawa, namely--
Answer: C

1525. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? To address Sumitava Mukherjee et al.'s contention that low financial stakes reduce loss aversion--the tendency for losses to be felt more acutely than equivalent gains are--and thus test a concept that has informed research in fields ranging from behavioral economics to transportation studies, Kellen Mrvka et al. conducted a study in which some participants were presented with scenarios involving ______ amounts of money. A. nominal B. indeterminate C. negotiable D. idiosyncratic
Answer: A

1526. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Using data from Argentina and nineteen other countries, Filazzola et al. compared sites where livestock grazing is active with sites where it has been eliminated. They found that wild-animal abundance positively correlated with duration of grazer exclusion, indicating that following the removal of livestock (e.g., cattle), one adverse effect on co-occurring animal species imposed by grazing livestock may ______ over time. A. abound B. emanate C. abate D. prevail
Answer: C

1527. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The Heege Manuscript (HM) consists of various texts copied by Richard Heege at his home in fifteenth-century England. Most contemporary collections like the HM consist of pieces for polite society like genteel romances and other readings favored by elites; in contrast, the HM reflects a strong ______ toward popular entertainments (such as parody romances) and practicalities (like advice about religion). A. skepticism B. proclivity C. sagacity D. ambivalence
Answer: B

1528. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Before the 1858 publication of On the Origin of Species, author Charles Darwin developed principles of natural selection (e.g., that abundant offspring of a species must compete for limited resources) in five notebooks. Some notebook entries from fall 1838 read like outlines of parts of the concept, suggesting that the theory was ______ idea even twenty years before his milestone publication. A. a disputed B. an entrenched C. a conclusive D. an incipient

Answer: D
1529. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Prose poetry, a form that combines the continuous text of prose with the condensed language and imagery of poetry--as exemplified in Claudia Rankine's "Coherence in Consequence"--is characterized by significant ______ how poets balance these elements. While some prose poems prominently feature conventional poetic devices, such as figures of speech, others embrace a more prosaic aesthetic. A. hesitance in B. inquiry into C. latitude in D. insight into
Answer: C
1530. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text? In Karuk, an Indigenous language from the West Coast of what is now the United States, ihmar means "to run," whereas ihmáraramnih means "to run into." This phenomenon, in which an element of a root word is repeated, sometimes with modification, within another word that is related to the root word, is called reduplication. In this case, the element "ar" in ihmar gets repeated in ihmáraramnih. There are many examples of this type of reduplication in Karuk. A. It explains the phenomenon of reduplication, discusses why reduplication has been controversial among scholars, and then argues that an analysis of Karuk could help resolve that controversy. B. It describes the relationship between Karuk and several other languages, raises a question about the nature of that relationship, and then answers that question. C. It presents some specific words in Karuk, describes the general linguistic phenomenon exemplified by those words, and then states that this phenomenon occurs frequently in Karuk. D. It identifies the most frequently occurring words in Karuk, explains why it is difficult to translate those words into English, and then provides examples of languages other than English into which those words can be translated.
Answer: C
1531. Based on the texts, how would the author of Text 2 most likely respond to the underlined claim in Text 1? Text 1 John Clare's poetry, reflecting both the beauty and the harshness of nineteenth-century rural England, demonstrates that an effective poetic portrayal of nature must be grounded in the authenticity of everyday lived experience. As a tenant farmer and a self-taught poet, Clare wrote verse that is infused with rhythms of agrarian life. This is evident in "The Shepherd's Calendar," which vividly depicts the changing seasons and daily patterns of rural existence.

Text 2 Samuel Taylor Coleridge, like many other Romantic-era poets, admired nature from afar. His poetry often portrays common landscapes in a mystical, awe-inspiring way, inviting readers to see nature's grandeur and share in his reverence for it. "Frost at Midnight" exemplifies this perspective as the poet uses the quiet of a winter night to contemplate nature's beauty and its connection to human thought. A. By questioning the idea that poetic depictions of nature that do not derive from authentic everyday experience are ineffective B. By asserting that a deep admiration for nature can also enhance the authenticity of its portrayals in poetry C. By claiming that authentic portrayals of nature in poetry come from encountering natural settings in the company of others D. By proposing that authentic portrayals of nature require a balance of both lived experience and poetic imagination
Answer: A

1532. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? Spanning the 1920s to the 1980s, Mexican architect Luis Barragán's prolific career evolved through distinct phases. After traveling to the United States and Europe in the early 1930s and immersing himself in an international architectural discourse, Barragán began incorporating principles derived from functionalism and modernism in his work, as seen in the Chávez Peón de Ochoa House, whose unadorned geometric forms contrast with the historically inspired architecture found in the Aguilar House, one of Barragán's early projects in Guadalajara. A. Barragán's designs of the Chávez Peón de Ochoa House and the Aguilar House are considered paragons of a functionalist and modernist aesthetic. B. Barragán's early work shows an initial dedication to a modernist aesthetic that he later abandoned. C. A notable shift in Barragán's design aesthetic reflects the influence of his time abroad. D. Barragán's design of the Aguilar House is considered more experimental than his design for the Chávez Peón de Ochoa House.
Answer: C

1533. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? The following text is from Ralph Waldo Emerson's 1841 essay "The Method of Nature."
The rapid wealth which hundreds of the community acquire in trade, or by the incessant expansions of our population and arts, enchants the eyes of all the rest; the luck of one is the hope of thousands, and the bribe acts like the neighborhood of a gold mine to impoverish the farm, the school, the church, the house, and the very body and feature of man. A. Those who wish to accumulate wealth can do so more quickly by engaging in trade than in other activities such as teaching and farming. B. Participating in a variety of activities is important for one's physical health. C. When a few people in a society become rich, the rest of the society will benefit in turn, given enough time. D. Observing the success of a few people can lead many to abandon important parts of their lives in the pursuit of similar success.
Answer: D

1535. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the student's conclusion?

Average Hours Worked per Person per Year in 1950 and 2017

Country 1950 2017 Change in hours Percent change in hours

Brazil 2,042 1,709

-333

-16%

Denmark 2,049 1,400

-649

-32%

Austria 2,086 1,613

-473

-23%

Peru 2,157 1,932

-225

-10%

Calculations may be inexact due to rounding.

A student in an economics course is examining the decline since 1950 in average hours worked per person per year in various nations due to both increased productivity and the adoption of policies that limit working hours. The first task in this investigation is to determine how the decline in Brazil compares to that in other countries. The student finds that ______

A. though the decline in number of hours worked in Brazil was less than that in Denmark and Austria, it was greater than that in Peru.

B. though the decline in number of hours worked in Brazil was greater than that in Denmark and Peru, it was less than that in Austria.

C. while the number of hours worked rose in Brazil between 1950 and 2017, it declined in Denmark, Austria, and Peru.

D. the percent decrease in hours worked was greater in Brazil than it was in Denmark, Austria, or Peru.

Answer: A

1536. Which quotation from a literary critic would most effectively illustrate the text's assertion about critics?
Bruce Sterling's 1986 cyberpunk anthology Mirrorshades contains just twelve carefully selected stories, and by the end of the 1980s Sterling himself claimed that cyberpunk, a subgenre of science fiction, was a dead artistic movement. But editor Jared Shurin's 2023 chronologically expansive anthology The Big Book of Cyberpunk contains 108 stories, including Fritz Leiber's "Coming Attraction" (1950) and Yudhanjaya Wijeratne's "The State Machine" (2020). Critics have claimed that Shurin's idea of what constitutes a cyberpunk short story is far more wide-ranging than Sterling's with respect to method of publication.
A. "For all its merits, Mirrorshades neglected some strains of cyberpunk that would go on to influence science fiction as a whole, largely because Sterling exclusively focused on short stories written in a narrow window of time (the early 1980s)."
B. "Many of the best science fiction writers work only in the short story format. Anthologies like The Big Book of Cyberpunk serve a crucial purpose for such writers, making their work available to the many readers who purchase stand-alone books but rarely look at science fiction magazines or online journals."
C. "Unlike the stories in Mirrorshades, not all the stories anthologized in The Big Book of Cyberpunk first appeared in print publications: for example, qntm's 2021 story `Lena' was originally self-published on the author's site qntm.org."
D. "In contrast to Sterling, who presents cyberpunk as a period-specific expansion of the boundaries of science fiction, Shurin presents cyberpunk as a genre with fixed conventions and essential characteristics that are unrelated to those of science fiction."
Answer: C

1537. Which choice most logically completes the text? Participants in a musical-perception study assigned high groove ratings (defined as the degree to which one wants to move to a song) to Earth, Wind & Fire's "Boogie Wonderland." In another study, participants assigned similarly high groove ratings to the Brazilian samba song "Desafinado." If, as some contend, the human experience of groove depends on the ability to "find the pulse" (intuit the regular underlying rhythm) of a song, that would suggest that participants in these two studies tended to ______ A. find the pulses of their respective songs easily. B. perceive their respective songs as rhythmically complex. C. experience little desire to move to their respective songs. D. rate the pulses of their respective songs rather than the grooves.
Answer: A

1538. Which choice most logically completes the text?
In a 2018 study, Deepak Jaiswal and Rishi Kant found that consumers' knowledge of environmental issues had no effect on the likelihood that the consumers would purchase environmentally friendly products. Since this study was based on fewer than 400 young adults in India, however, doubts have been raised about how reliable and representative the findings are. To better understand the issue, Wencan Zhuang and colleagues analyzed the results of 54 studies of eco-friendly consumer behavior, such as a 2014 study from China that included 909 participants and a 2015 study from India with 270 participants. Taking all 54 studies together, Zhuang and colleagues found a significant positive effect of environmental knowledge on eco-friendly purchasing decisions, suggesting that ______
A. the number of participants in Jaiswal and Kant's study was far below the number of participants in most studies of purchasing decisions.
B. the participants in Jaiswal and Kant's study may not have been typical of consumers generally when it comes to environmentally friendly purchasing decisions.
C. a sample size of 270 may be sufficient to make reliable conclusions about the relationship between knowledge of environmental issues and purchasing decisions.
D. Jaiswal and Kant's methodology was more precise than the methodology used in the 2014 study from China.
Answer: B

1539. Which choice most logically completes the text?
In 2013, Shirley Ann Williams et al. performed a meta-analysis (an assessment of previous research) of studies of the social media website formerly known as Twitter, such as the 2011 paper by Bollen et al. titled "Happiness Is Assortative in Online Social Networks," in order to identify research trends. Williams's team found that while a significant number of papers focused on profiles of users, many focused on message content. Williams's team also found that when researchers focused on message content, they were especially likely to use knowledge discovery methods (methods derived from statistical analysis and artificial intelligence that are aimed at handling enormous amounts of information), suggesting that ______
A. knowledge discovery methods yield less reliable results when applied to user profiles than to the content of social media messages.
B. researchers typically presumed that a small proportion of users account for most of the information in social media messages.
C. researchers tended to expect the amount of information in social media messages to be particularly high.
D. studies using knowledge discovery methods are more widely cited than studies that do not use such methods.
Answer: C

1540. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? As a behavioral economist, Katy Milkman of the University of Pennsylvania explores how psychological factors (such as emotion and bias) influence the economic choices that individuals ______ Milkman's research considers the broader effects these choices have on the economy. A. make; moreover, B. make, moreover; C. make, moreover, D. make, moreover.
Answer: A

1542. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Released in 1999, the Intel Pentium III microchip contained a single CPU, or core, to execute commands. Since then, the average processing power of microchips has ______ cores now number in the dozens, hundreds, or even thousands--that the once-revolutionary dual-core technology that replaced the single-core chip can be found in everyday items like toasters and toothbrushes. A. increased--so drastically, B. increased so drastically, C. increased so drastically-- D. increased, so drastically,
Answer: C

1543. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? At the Rankin Inlet observatory site in Canada, radars point their antennae to the sky to track gravity waves and other geospace phenomena. These radars are not the only ones scanning the ______ more than thirty other radar sites around the globe monitor these same phenomena as part of the Super Dual Auroral Radar Network. A. sky, though, B. sky, though; C. sky though D. sky; though,
Answer: D

1544. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In a chemical equation, the value known as molar mass is useful for converting between the mass of the reactants and the mass of the product. The gaseous ______ have molar masses of 48.00 and 56.11 g/mol, respectively. A. compounds ozone (O3) and isobutylene (C4H8), B. compounds, ozone (O3) and isobutylene (C4H8) C. compounds ozone (O3) and isobutylene (C4H8) D. compounds, ozone (O3) and isobutylene (C4H8),
Answer: C

1545. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Karl Popper's argument that scientific hypotheses must be theoretically refutable, termed the criterion of falsifiability, rejects the confirmationist ______ verifiability as the essential criterion for scientific hypotheses. To Popper, a statement like "all spiders have eight legs" is scientific not because it can be verified, or proved true, but because it can theoretically be proved false. A. argument, it posits B. argument positing C. argument and posits D. argument, positing
Answer: B

1546. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The visual magnitude scale, which measures the brightness of stars, is reverse logarithmic: the brighter a star, the lower its magnitude number. ______ the star Gamma Velorum, the 30th brightest in the sky, has a higher visual magnitude number (1.72) than does the brighter star Aldebaran. The 14th-brightest star, Aldebaran has a magnitude of 0.86. A. On the other hand, B. Nonetheless, C. Moreover, D. Hence,
Answer: D

1547. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? The total solar eclipse of April 6, 648 BCE, was the subject of a famous poem written in the same year by the Greek lyric poet Archilochus. Another memorable solar eclipse occurred on October 22, 2137 BCE, but unlike the 648 BCE eclipse, the 2137 BCE eclipse was annular. ______ the Moon didn't cover the Sun completely, instead creating an annulus, or "ring of fire." A. Meanwhile, B. For example, C. That is, D. Nonetheless,
Answer: C

1548. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? During many historic New York City parades, including the 1912 ticker-tape parade for US Olympic champions, the ribbonlike swirls descending on the scene were paper spools from "tickers," telegraph machines that were used to transmit stock prices. ______ the tickers had long since been retired by the time of the parade for the New York Rangers in 1994. Then, shredded standard paper enriched the celebration. A. In addition, B. For example, C. Of course, D. As a result,
Answer: C

1549. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In a 2022 study, Knut Bretzke and colleagues used optically stimulated luminescence dating to estimate the age of stone tools excavated from an archaeological site in South Arabia. This method dates artifacts by determining how much time has elapsed since mineral grains in the sediments surrounding the artifacts were last exposed to sunlight. ______ the timing of the artifacts' burial serves as a proxy for the age of the artifacts themselves. A. In addition, B. For example, C. That is, D. Instead,
Answer: C

1550. The student wants to explain what makes the neon sculpture glow. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Run Rush Run is a 1977 sculpture by Argentinian artist Margarita Paksa. It consists of the title phrase ("run rush run") spelled out in glowing blue, pink, and purple neon lighting. To make neon lighting, glass tubes are heated, molded into shape, and filled with gas. An electrical current is passed through the gas to make it glow. A. An electrical current passes through the gas-filled tubes in Run Rush Run, making them glow blue, pink, and purple. B. A glow emanates from Paksa's sculpture, which is made of glass tubes. C. The sculpture's glass tubes have been heated and molded to spell out the phrase "run rush run." D. Paksa's 1977 sculpture spells out the phrase "run rush run" in glowing blue, pink, and purple neon lights.
Answer: A

1551. The student wants to contrast the orbits of the two moons. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Saturn has 146 moons, including Hyperion and Prometheus. Hyperion completes an orbit of Saturn in 21.28 Earth days on average. Prometheus completes an orbit of Saturn in 0.61 Earth days on average. German mathematician and astronomer Johannes Kepler (1571-1630) described the orbits of planets as elliptical in shape rather than circular. Kepler published three laws of planetary motion to describe the orbits of planets around the Sun. Kepler's laws also apply to the elliptical orbits of natural satellites (e.g., moons).
A. Saturn's moons, specifically Hyperion and Prometheus, orbit their planet in the same way the planets orbit the Sun.
B. Hyperion's orbit of Saturn is elliptical in shape and takes, on average, 21.28 Earth days, while Prometheus's orbit of Saturn is circular in shape and takes, on average, 0.61 Earth days.
C. Kepler's three laws of planetary motion describe the orbits of planets and natural satellites, including those of Hyperion and Prometheus.
D. Prometheus completes its orbit of Saturn many times faster than Hyperion does.
Answer: D

1692. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In 1862, Scottish physicist James Clerk Maxwell proposed that light requires an ether to propagate. This theory ______ to explain the nature of light, though widely accepted for a time, eventually lost favor among members of the scientific community. A. attempts B. was attempting C. attempting D. attempted
Answer: C

1823. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? In his experimental film Koyaanisqatsi (1982), Godfrey Reggio manipulates shots to accord with Philip Glass's original score, variously applying slow-motion and timelapse techniques to shots of commuters and rhythmically intercutting between the movement of water and the flow of automobile traffic, among other pairings, to create ______ images and music. A. a hierarchy among B. a consonance between C. an exaggeration of D. a mystery from
Answer: B

1824. Which choice best states the main purpose of the text? Claudine Mukesharugo, a tea producer in Rwanda, and Vinicio Gonzales, a coffee grower in Guatemala, are both part of a global community of small farmers who partner with the grassroots organization Thrive Farmers. Their partnership with the organization is based on a revenue-sharing model that puts the farmers at the forefront. With this model, farmers aren't just supplying initial crops but are stakeholders through the sale of the finished products. A. To explain that some small farmers follow a business model that allows them to have greater involvement in the sale of products made with their crops B. To describe how a partnership between two farms that produce different types of crops led to the development of a new business model for small farmers C. To introduce the idea that around the world, small farmers have increasingly been managing their farms as if they were large businesses D. To suggest that the Thrive Farmers organization is generating greater global demand for crops grown by small farmers
Answer: A

1825. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
In Nimipuutimt, an Indigenous language from the interior Northwest region of what is now the United States, pit'íin' means "girl," whereas pi-pít'in' is used to refer to two or more girls. This phenomenon, in which an element of a root word is repeated, sometimes with modification, within another word that is related to the root word, is called reduplication. In this case, the element "pi" in pit'íin' gets repeated in pi-pít'in'. There are many examples of this type of reduplication in Nimipuutimt.
A. It describes the relationship between Nimipuutimt and several other languages, raises a question about the nature of that relationship, and then answers that question.
B. It identifies the most frequently occurring words in Nimipuutimt, explains why it is difficult to translate those words into English, and then provides examples of languages other than English into which those words can be translated.
C. It explains the phenomenon of reduplication, discusses why reduplication has been controversial among scholars, and then argues that an analysis of Nimipuutimt could help resolve that controversy.
D. It presents some specific words in Nimipuutimt, describes the general linguistic phenomenon exemplified by those words, and then states that this phenomenon occurs frequently in Nimipuutimt.
Answer: D

1833. Which choice most logically completes the text?
In 2013, Shirley Ann Williams et al. performed a meta-analysis (an assessment of previous research) of studies of the social media website formerly known as Twitter, such as the 2011 paper by Brody and Diakopoulos titled "Cooooooooooooooollllllllllllll!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Using Word Lengthening to Detect Sentiment in Microblogs," in order to identify research trends. Williams's team found that while a significant number of papers focused on profiles of users, many focused on message content. Williams's team also found that when researchers focused on message content, they were especially likely to use knowledge discovery methods (methods derived from statistical analysis and artificial intelligence that are aimed at handling enormous amounts of information), suggesting that ______
A. researchers tended to expect the amount of information in social media messages to be particularly high.
B. studies using knowledge discovery methods are more widely cited than studies that do not use such methods.
C. researchers typically presumed that a small proportion of users account for most of the information in social media messages.
D. knowledge discovery methods yield less reliable results when applied to user profiles than to the content of social media messages.
Answer: A

1967. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Science fiction has long served as a ______ real-world technological advancements. Indeed, from Jules Verne's 1865 novel From the Earth to the Moon inspiring developments in aerospace engineering to the television show Star Trek sparking the design of the ancestor of today's smartphones, these narratives have spurred many actual innovations. A. diversion from B. constraint to C. catalyst of D. sponsor of
Answer: C

1969. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The dinosaur displays at museums such as the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago (which has a mounted Apatosaurus skeleton among its holdings) are notable for the ______ of the research behind them--the museum staff consulted numerous sources to ensure the accuracy of the displays. A. rigor B. obscurity C. shallowness D. novelty
Answer: A

1979. Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researcher's claim?
A team of public transportation experts in Buffalo is creating a new light rail stop for the Buffalo Metro Rail system that will service a neighborhood in which a stop does not currently exist. To decide where to place the stop, the team is using a survey from ten years ago that asked how far neighborhood residents would be willing to walk to a light rail stop. The team also looked at studies showing that people's willingness to walk to public transit is influenced by factors like weather and the presence of well-enforced low speed limits for cars. A researcher has argued that the survey does not accurately reflect the feelings of today's residents of this neighborhood.
A. Residents of Buffalo are much less likely to use public transit on rainy days than on clear days.
B. Current users of the Buffalo Metro Rail are satisfied with the number of stops along the line.
C. There has been a sharp increase in the last ten years in cyclists who use the roads in the neighborhood that the light rail stop will service.
D. The enforcement of posted speed limits in the neighborhood that the light rail stop will service has increased substantially in the last ten years.
Answer: D

1981. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Many works of the Roman engineer Frontinus (1st century CE) are ______ his De aquaeductu, a report on the Roman aqueduct system, is an extant work: it can still be read. A. lost, and conversely B. lost. Conversely, C. lost and conversely, D. lost, conversely,
Answer: B

2113. As used in the text, what does the word "considered" most nearly mean?
The following text is from Chinua Achebe's 1964 novel Arrow of God. The novel is set in Nigeria in the 1920s. Ezeulu, who is the religious leader for several villages, announces when the annual yam harvest can begin.
Whenever Ezeulu considered the immensity of his power over the year and the crops and, therefore, over the people he wondered if it was real. It was true he named the day for the feast of the Pumpkin Leaves and for the New Yam feast; but he did not choose it. He was merely a watchman. His power was no more than the power of a child over a goat that was said to be his.
©1964 by Chinua Achebe

A. Anticipated B. Respected C. Allowed D. Pondered
Answer: D

2117. Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole? The following text is from Yung Wing's 1909 memoir My Life in China and America. Yung Wing was the first person from China to graduate from a US university.
Little did I realize when in 1845 I wrote, while in the Morrison School, a composition on "An Imaginary Voyage to New York and up the Hudson," that I was to see New York in reality. This incident leads me to the reflection that sometimes our imagination foreshadows what lies uppermost in our minds and brings possibilities within the sphere of realities. A. It illustrates the sense of adventure that Yung developed as a child. B. It describes an event in Yung's life that exemplifies a phenomenon. C. It indicates Yung's unwillingness to distinguish between reality and fantasy as a child. D. It foreshadows Yung's future difficulties in publishing his writings.
Answer: B

2118. Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
Establishing protected areas (PAs), such as the Mamanuca Islands in Fiji, is a common conservation strategy, but because PAs restrict some kinds of economic activity, it's widely thought that they hinder economic development. This perception is driven in part by the fact that economic assessments often don't capture the indirect effects of tourism linked to PAs. But Anubhab Gupta et al. found that tourism associated with the Mamanuca Islands boosts local demand for goods and services in other economic sectors, resulting in, for instance, increased income from livestock production in nearby areas.
A. It makes a generalization about the difficulty of using PAs to reconcile economic and conservation priorities, demonstrates why most PAs fall short of achieving that goal, and then holds up a particular PA as an example of how that goal can be achieved.
B. It introduces a widely held belief about the effect PAs have on the economy, proposes a reason for that belief's prevalence, and then details a study whose findings seemingly conflict with that belief.
C. It states a hypothesis that accounts for why PAs generally negatively impact local economies, outlines how a research team's findings support that hypothesis, and then suggests how a novel methodology led a separate team of researchers to a different conclusion.
D. It explains how PAs typically affect economic development in the regions where they are established, summarizes the findings of several economic studies that support this explanation, and then concedes that a particular PA is an exception to the general trend.
Answer: B

2127. Which finding, if true, would most directly support Núñez and colleagues' claim?
Rafael Núñez and colleagues studied how members of the Yupno, an Indigenous group in Papua New Guinea, conceptualize time in both spoken language and gestures. The researchers recorded Yupno speakers explaining certain temporal words and phrases, such as abjuk, a present-oriented expression that translates to "now," and coded each speaker's manual gestures. Previous research has found a tendency in many cultures to make temporal distinctions along imagined linear axes: for instance, English speakers often refer to the front/back axis to describe events in time. Some researchers believe this tendency is universal, but Núñez and colleagues claim this is not the case.
A. Yupno speakers typically use their left hand to make temporal gestures regardless of whether the gestures are past oriented or future oriented.
B. Some Yupno grammatical structures used when talking about time are also used in English.
C. Yupno speakers were observed making temporal gestures both indoors and outdoors, though with greater frequency when indoors.
D. Future-oriented gestures used by Yupno speakers do not, on average, point in the opposite linear direction of past-oriented gestures.
Answer: D

2268. Based on the information in the text and table, is the tour guide's claim supported?

Percent Change in Stopover Visits from Canada (2024 to 2025)

Location Q1 2024 Q1 2025 Change (%)

Anguilla

720

773

7.4

Cayman Islands 11,409 12,374

8.5

Cuba

399,254 272,274 -31.8

Curaçao Mexico

15,716 17,941

14.2

784,150 822,538 4.9

In terms of tourism, a "stopover" is a stay of at least one night in a location while on the way to another location for either personal or business travel. A tour guide finds a table of records of stopover visits by Canadians in January-March (Q1) of 2024 and of 2025. The tour guide claims that out of the listed locations, Cuba experienced the greatest decrease in such visits by people who were traveling for personal reasons but was still a very popular stop in both periods.

A. No, because even though the table shows that Cuba had high numbers of stopover visits from Canada in both periods, that total was several hundred thousand lower than Mexico's peak in those periods

B. No, because even though the table shows that Cuba had more total stopover visits from Canada than most other locations did in both periods, it doesn't show numbers by type of travel

C. Yes, because the table shows that Cuba had the second highest total number of stopover visits from Canada in both Q1 2024 and Q1 2025

D. Yes, because the table shows that the percent change in stopover visits from Canada to Cuba between the two periods was negative, indicating a decline in totals for both types of travel

Answer: B

2272. The information in the text and the graph best supports which conclusion about the data sets used in Wang et al.'s study?
Correlations Between Length-of-Season Estimates from GPP and SIF Data Sets
0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1
0 -0.1
FLUXNETFLUXCOM RF-GPP

Correlation

SIF data set A SIF data set D SIF data set F

Gross primary productivity (GPP), the rate of carbon fixation by plants during photosynthesis, is typically inferred from carbon flux observations. Since seasonal onset and cessation of photosynthesis correspond with changes in GPP, GPP data sets derived from carbon flux observations, including FLUXNET, FLUXCOM, and RF-GPP, can be used to estimate growing-season length. In a study exploring the use of another proxy for photosynthesis--solar-induced chlorophyll fluorescence (SIF), solar radiation reemitted by plants that can be detected via satellite--to determine growing-season length, Zhe Wang et al. calculated correlations between estimates from several SIF data sets (a sample of which are represented in the graph) and estimates from GPP data sets (values closer to 0 indicate weaker correlations).
A. The weaker correlations between SIF data set F and all three GPP data sets relative to those of the other SIF data sets suggest that data set F systematically underestimates the length of the growing season.
B. In comparison to the more limited range of FLUXNET values, the greater range between the highest and lowest FLUXCOM values suggests that FLUXCOM-derived estimates of growing-season length vary more widely than FLUXNET-derived estimates do.
C. Length-of-season estimates derived from RF-GPP data were generally more similar to those derived from FLUXCOM data than they were to those derived from FLUXNET data.
D. The stronger correlations between all three SIF data sets and the FLUXCOM and RF-GPP data sets relative to those between all three SIF data sets and FLUXNET suggest that FLUXCOM and RF-GPP enable more accurate estimates of growing-season length than FLUXNET does.
Answer: C

2278. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? To appreciate what scholars believe to be the allegorical intent of Botticelli's 15th-century painting ______ to embody the virtues of love, peace, and purity--a viewer must become familiar with the painting's symbolic elements. A. The Birth of Venus, namely B. The Birth of Venus, namely-- C. The Birth of Venus, namely, D. The Birth of Venus--namely,
Answer: D

2280. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In the 4th century BCE, ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle proposed that objects move only if it is in their nature to move. This theory ______ to explain the fundamental principles of motion, though widely accepted for a time, eventually lost favor among members of the scientific community. A. attempts B. was attempting C. attempted D. attempting
Answer: D

2410. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Yuen Yuen Ang et al. argue that merely tallying the number of patents filed per year ______ the degree of innovation occurring: truly novel patents--those, like a 2011 patent for an automated navigation system for planes, that combine previously unaffiliated technological domains--are vastly outnumbered by nonnovel patents (e.g., a 2008 patent for a method of making soup). A. belies B. portends C. thwarts D. maligns
Answer: A

2411. Which choice best states the function of the underlined sentence? Magical realism, a style that weaves fantasy into realistic narratives, coalesced in Latin America in the 1960s. It is associated with Gabriel García Márquez, whose One Hundred Years of Solitude is a key text. The style was embraced by Mexican American writers, such as Ana Castillo, whose So Far from God draws on Mexican folktales as a source of fantasy. Yet The Mixquiahuala Letters, also by Castillo, features no fantastical plot events. And despite his popular reputation, García Márquez himself wrote several works of strict realism, including Chronicle of a Death Foretold. A. To identify an unrecognized point of similarity between Chronicle of a Death Foretold and So Far from God B. To suggest that Mexican American authors who were influenced by García Márquez may have, in turn, influenced him C. To refute the possible impression that García Márquez conformed to magical realism in all of his works D. To challenge the common assumption that One Hundred Years of Solitude is superior to realist works by García Márquez
Answer: C

2413. What does the text most directly suggest about translation apps? Linguist John McWhorter asserts that translation apps for smartphones and computers are--despite generally failing to convey many nuances--increasingly obviating the need to learn new languages. Advances in language processing technology have greatly boosted the utility of these apps for perfunctory tasks, like inquiring about an item on a menu, and passing interactions; be that as it may, richer communication (e.g., in business dealings or meaningful personal exchanges) often hinges on conversational patterns and gradations of meaning. A. They have improved remarkably over time but remain insufficient to support the complexity called for in certain interactions. B. They are coming to be embraced by international tourists but are viewed with skepticism by many business professionals. C. They are becoming simpler to use but are inconsistent in how comprehensively they cover different languages. D. They have gained impressive capabilities but continue to be widely viewed as inadequate for most practical purposes.
Answer: A

2415. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the text?

Effect of Various Soil Treatments on Mean Pineapple Fruit Weight and Size

Soil treatment

Weight (grams) Length (centimeters) Diameter (centimeters)

Control

825.9

6.14

13.63

Biochar

915.7

6.56

13.63

Compost

864.8

6.15

13.22

Biochar and compost

979.3

6.76

13.68

Biochar and NPK fertilizer 1032.1

6.78

13.96

Working in Ghana, Emmanuel Hanyabui and colleagues compared the impact on pineapple growth of different combinations of soil additives, including NPK fertilizer (an inorganic fertilizer containing nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium), organic compost, and biochar (a carbon-rich material produced from organic waste matter). Based on data in the table, pineapple farmers with no access to inorganic soil additives would likely increase the weight and size of their fruits by the greatest amount by using ______

A. biochar and NPK fertilizer.

B. biochar and compost.

C. biochar alone.

D. compost alone.

Answer: B

2420. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Puerto Rico, it's not unusual for a city or town to be known by a nickname that corresponds to one of its notable features, like landscape, climate, famous residents, or chief export. For example, the Puerto Rican municipality of Manatí is well known for its history as a cultural center in the early 20th ______ this distinction has earned it the fitting nickname of "the Athens of Puerto Rico." A. century and B. century C. century, D. century;
Answer: D

2429. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to explain the 50 Completers hiking challenge to a new audience?
The Highpointers Club is a hiking club. One of the main goals among club members is to reach the highest points in all fifty US states. Those who achieve this are called 50 Completers. In Suk Han became a 50 Completer on November 15, 2013. The highest point in West Virginia is Spruce Knob, at 4,863 ft. The highest point in Colorado is Mount Elbert, at 14,440 ft.
A. Hikers aiming to count themselves among the 50 Completers must reach not only West Virginia's Spruce Knob but also the even higher peak of Mount Elbert in Colorado.
B. Not until after you have reached the highest points in all fifty US states--including Spruce Knob in West Virginia and Mount Elbert in Colorado--can you include yourself among the 50 Completers of the Highpointers Club.
C. If you are looking for a new hiking challenge, consider joining the Highpointers Club, as did In Suk Han, a hiker who successfully reached the highest point in every US state.
D. On November 15, 2013, In Suk Han finally completed the feat of reaching the highest point in all fifty US states, including Spruce Knob in West Virginia and Mount Elbert in Colorado.
Answer: B

2430. Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to introduce Marie Hall to a new audience? Antonio Stradivari (1644-1737) was an Italian instrument maker. He made about 1,000 violins in his lifetime. Musicians prize his Stradivarius violins for their famed sound quality. The Marie Hall Stradivarius is named for former owner Marie Hall, a British violinist.
A. Of the 1,000 or so violins Antonio Stradivari made, only about 500 exist today. B. Marie Hall was a British violinist who once owned a Stradivarius violin. C. The Marie Hall Stradivarius is named after Marie Hall. D. Born in 1644, Antonio Stradivari was an Italian instrument maker whose violins are famous for their quality.
Answer: B

2567. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Highest Major Summits in India

Summit Elevation (meters) Mountain range Prominence (meters)

Kangto

7,060

Assam Himalaya

2,195

Saser Kangri III

7,495

Saser Karakoram

850

Langpo

6,965

Sikkim Himalaya

560

Sri Kailash

6,932

Garhwal Himalaya

1,092

Mount Lakshmi

6,983

Rimo Karakoram

800

Mountain summits are often described in terms of their elevation, or height above sea level. But a summit's elevation may not be as good an indication of how high the mountain appears to observers as is the summit's prominence, or its height above its surroundings, and these values can differ significantly. For example, the Indian mountain of ______

A. Saser Kangri III has an elevation of 7,495 meters but a considerably lower prominence of 850 meters.

B. Kangto has a much higher prominence than does Langpo.

C. Kangto has a high prominence but is from a different mountain range than Mount Lakshmi, which has a lower prominence.

D. Sri Kailash has an elevation of 6,932 meters and is considered the highest mountain from the Garhwal Himalaya range.

Answer: A

2571. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Charles Dickens's classic 1850 novel about a young man named David Copperfield has a title that is instantly recognizable to many readers: David Copperfield. Dickens's novel originally had a different ______ while writing and editing, Dickens had planned to call the novel Mag's Diversions. A. title, though; B. title, though, C. title; though D. title, though
Answer: A

2572. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? On Guard is a 1997 photograph by Iranian artist Shirin Neshat. Like many of Neshat's photos, the work features a pair of hands. Clasping a microphone, one hand ______ covered in Persian script, the hands imply an out-of-frame figure on the edge of speaking. A. is bare and the other is B. bare, the other is C. bare and the other D. is bare, the other
Answer: C

2575. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Giant dust plumes from the Sahara Desert that blow across the Atlantic Ocean can have complex and opposing effects on tropical cyclones. On one hand, the dust can enhance the formation of ice clouds in the cyclone's core, increasing precipitation. ______ the dust can lower sea surface temperatures around the cyclone's core, weakening the storm. A. In other words, B. For example, C. On the other hand, D. Previously,
Answer: C

2848. As used in the text, what does the word "consideration" most nearly mean? The following text is adapted from Henry James's 1881 novel The Portrait of a Lady.
Everything Osmond did was pose--pose so subtly considered that if one were not on the lookout one mistook it for impulse. Ralph had never met a man who lived so much in the land of consideration. His tastes, his studies, his accomplishments, his collections, were all for a purpose. A. Courtesy B. Calculation C. Indecision D. Deference
Answer: B

2850. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Whatever the general attitude toward Andrew L. Stone's 1943 film Stormy Weather and William Greaves's 1968 film Symbiopsychotaxiplasm, Take One when they were initially released, both films now tend to be regarded quite ______. In 2018, for example, critics for the New York Times praised the former as "[an] anthology of great performances" and the latter as "a vital artifact of its time." A. strangely B. neutrally C. skeptically D. favorably
Answer: D

2856. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? The following text is from Nathaniel Hawthorne's 1830 short story "Sir William Phips."
The knowledge, communicated by the historian and biographer, is analogous to that which we acquire of a country by the map,--minute, perhaps, and accurate, and available for all necessary purposes, but cold and naked, and wholly destitute of the mimic charm produced by landscape painting. These defects are partly remediable, and even without an absolute violation of literal truth, although by methods rightfully interdicted to professors of biographical exactness. A. The more famous a person is, the more likely that person is to attract the attention of a historian. B. Biographers are more-skilled writers than other kinds of historians. C. Historians' fidelity to the truth often results in work that is less engaging than it could be. D. Paintings may be more beautiful than maps, but maps are more useful than paintings.
Answer: C

3014. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? As anthropologist Cristina Grasseni explains, many artisanal cheeses in Italy, such as Provolone Valpadana from Trentino-Alto Adige and Ragusano from Sicily, are highly valued for their regional authenticity; ______ they are prized for being made using local ingredients and methods typical of their respective geographic regions. A. that is, B. still, C. rather, D. then,
Answer: A

3018. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? As volcanologists like Tamsin Mather are apt to make clear, not all volcanoes are the same. Ischia in Italy, for example, is a complex volcano, a mixed landform consisting of related volcanic centers and their associated lava flows and pyroclastic rock. Mount Vsevidof in Alaska, ______ is a stratovolcano, a conical volcano built up by many layers of hardened lava and tephra. A. in any case, B. in contrast, C. in fact, D. in conclusion,
Answer: B

3019. The student wants to provide a historical overview of the Shackleton expedition. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
1914: British explorer Ernest Shackleton and a small crew embarked on an expedition to Antarctica. 1915: Shackleton's ship Endurance became stuck in ice before eventually breaking apart and sinking. 1916: After more harrowing sea-ice adventures, the entire crew was rescued. 1959: Historian Alfred Lansing wrote a book called Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage. 2001: Filmmaker George Butler released a documentary called The Endurance: Shackleton's Legendary Antarctic Expedition. 2022: The wreckage of Endurance was discovered at the bottom of Antarctica's Weddell Sea.
A. Alfred Lansing wrote about the history of Shackleton's 1914-16 expedition in the book Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage (1959); years later, in 2001, George Butler released a documentary about the expedition.
B. In 1914, the Shackleton expedition sailed to Antarctica, where, in 1916, they rescued the crew of a ship that had sunk, Endurance (the wreckage of which was discovered in 2022).
C. Leaving in 1914 for Antarctica, Shackleton and his crew underwent many harrowing sea-ice adventures, including losing their ship in 1915, before being rescued in 1916.
D. Shackleton's expedition has inspired a 1959 book, a 2001 film, and a 2022 discovery.
Answer: C

3157. Which choice most logically completes the text? In a study of the effects of music tempo (as measured in beats per minute, or bpm) during exercise, participants rode a bicycle for 30 minutes while listening to Beyoncé's "Irreplaceable" (88 bpm) continuously. Researchers anticipated that when participants performed the same activity the following day while listening to Led Zeppelin's "Rock and Roll" (169 bpm), they would ride more quickly. Participants' performance on the second day, however, may have been negatively affected by tiredness from the first day. Thus, ______ A. participants demonstrated a preference for one song over the other. B. participants' prior familiarity with the songs may have contributed to differences in performance over the two days. C. the researchers were unable to accurately measure how quickly participants rode on the second day. D. the results from the second day may lead to an underestimation of the effect of the faster song.
Answer: D

3159. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Robert Louis Stevenson's classic 1883 novel about a young man who discovers a treasure map has a title that is instantly recognizable to many readers: Treasure Island. Stevenson's novel originally had a different ______ while writing and editing, Stevenson had planned to call the novel The Sea Cook. A. title, though B. title; though C. title, though; D. title, though,
Answer: C

3290. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? ______ the mythological and heroic subject matter often found in works by Thomas Couture and other establishment figures, Konstantin Savitsky's painting Repairing the Railway instead focuses on something decidedly mundane: a large group of laborers rebuilding broken train tracks. A. Eschewing B. Caricaturing C. Appraising D. Expounding
Answer: A

3310. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Though the musical groups Sólido and Banda el Recodo are often categorized under the catchall "regional Mexican music" label, they each adhere to distinct musical traditions. The former works within the tejano tradition, which originated in mid-twentieth-century Texas and northern Mexico. The latter, ______ follows the banda tradition, with roots in mid-nineteenth-century southern and central Mexico. A. as a result, B. to this end, C. on the other hand, D. in other words,
Answer: C

3450. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Many works of the Greek historian Strabo (1st century BCE) are ______ his Geographica, a descriptive history of the ancient world, is an extant work: it can still be read. A. lost, conversely, B. lost. Conversely, C. lost and conversely, D. lost, and conversely
Answer: B

3453. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? On May 11, 2009, the space shuttle Atlantis blasted off into space, commencing Mission ______ twelve days and twenty-one hours, the mission ended when the shuttle landed at Edwards Air Force Base in California. A. STS-125 lasting B. STS-125. Lasting C. STS-125, lasting D. STS-125, it lasted
Answer: B

3738. Which quotation from Cane most effectively illustrates the claim? Cane is a 1923 novel by Jean Toomer. In the novel, Toomer mentions a road in rural Georgia called Dixie Pike and describes it as having a deep connection to a faraway place, writing, ______ A. "The Dixie Pike has grown from a goat path in Africa." B. "Dixie Pike is what they call it." C. "From down the railroad track, the chug-chug of a gas engine announces that the repair gang is coming home." D. "And when the wind is from the South, soil of my homeland falls like a fertile shower upon the lean streets of [Washington, DC]."
Answer: A

3739. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Highly Traveled Commercial Airline Routes in 2017-18

Location 1 Location 2 Distance of route (kilometers) 2018 passengers 2017 passengers Domestic or international

Hong Kong Manila

1,145

3,008,842

2,907,228 international

Jakarta Singapore

896

4,812,342

4,810,602 international

Mumbai Delhi

1,150

7,392,155

7,129,943 domestic

Mexico City Monterrey

729

3,474,971

3,202,091 domestic

A study of commercial airline routes that carried the greatest number of passengers in 2017 and 2018 shows that, in general, domestic routes (routes within a single country) carried many more passengers than international routes. However, a few international routes were so popular that they carried more travelers than some of the most highly traveled domestic routes, as can be seen when comparing the ______

A. distance between Mexico City and Monterrey with the distance between Jakarta and Singapore.

B. number of passengers who traveled between Mumbai and Delhi in 2017 with the number who traveled between Hong Kong and Manila during that same year.

C. number of passengers who traveled between Jakarta and Singapore in 2017 with the number who traveled that same route in 2018.

D. number of passengers who traveled between Jakarta and Singapore in 2018 with the number who traveled between Mexico City and Monterrey during that same year.

Answer: D

3754. The student wants to indicate one or more regions where leafy spurge is causing environmental or economic harm. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
A nonnative species is considered invasive if it causes environmental or economic harm in an ecosystem. Leafy spurge is a species of flowering plant native to parts of Eurasia. It can also be found in the western US. There, it crowds out native plants. It is considered an invasive species in the US.
A. Leafy spurge is considered invasive because it crowds out native plants, causing environmental harm.
B. Leafy spurge, a flowering plant native to parts of Eurasia, is considered an invasive species.
C. Leafy spurge is native to the western US, but elsewhere it causes environmental or economic harm.
D. Leafy spurge can be found in the western US, where it crowds out native plants.
Answer: D

4044. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? Researchers in France claim that leopards and brown bears are among the twenty most "charismatic" animals (defined as "attractive, fascinating, or appealing"). To create their top-twenty list, researchers used survey data from Western Europe. European attitudes toward leopards and brown bears might not be shared around the world, ______ A. for example. B. in particular. C. in other words. D. of course.
Answer: D

4045. Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition? In the Southeast Asian country of Vietnam, the percentage of the population living in cities rose from 33.8% to 37.3% between 2015 and 2020. ______ urbanization rates climbed across Southeast Asia as a whole, rising 2.8 percentage points in that five-year period. A. In other words, B. For example, C. Concurrently, D. Eventually,
Answer: C

4173. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? ______ the mythological and heroic subject matter often found in works by Jean-Victor Schnetz and other establishment figures, Jan Hendrik Weissenbruch's painting Farmhouse Interior instead focuses on something decidedly mundane: a peasant woman knitting at a table while a cat sits underneath. A. Eschewing B. Expounding C. Caricaturing D. Appraising
Answer: A

4174. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? While modern composers may often get inspiration from past greats like Johann Sebastian Bach, the extent of their influences is broad. The music of Gabriela Montero, for example, can be said to ______ elements of both the classical European tradition and the social, political, and cultural landscape of her native Venezuela. A. defy B. neglect C. exhibit D. foretell

Answer: C

4184. Which quotation from a publication by a researcher would most effectively support the student's claim? A student is writing an essay on the subject of cultured meat, which is grown in a laboratory and is intended to help reduce the number of livestock harvested for food. The student wants to make the case that cultured meat production may be useful in responding to an expected widespread change in the public's behavior. A. "Consumers tend to believe that using less packaging when selling meat products in stores would have a significant effect on the environment." B. "Some of the growth promoters that would be needed to produce large quantities of cultured meats are currently prohibited for farming purposes in the European Union." C. "Researchers who advocate for the development of lab-grown meat claim that it's better than conventional meat because its nutritional content can be adjusted." D. "A growing population that is including significantly more meat in its diet will contribute to an increasing demand for meat products in the 21st century."
Answer: D

4475. Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?

Reported Annual Travel Distances in Four Studies of Migrating Animal Populations

Species

Continent Distance (km) Measurement method

Mule deer

North America

772

RTD

Caribou

North America 3,807 GPS

Gray wolf

North America 2,155 GPS

White-eared kob Africa

400

RTD

Some studies of migrating animals measure how far the animals travel in a year by fitting individuals with GPS tracking collars. Other studies track annual round-trip distance (RTD), which is equal to double the distance separating the two habitats a population migrates between each year. A researcher argues that since GPS records all of an animal's movements, using the GPS method to track a population would result in significantly higher recorded travel distances than using the RTD method would. For example, it's very likely that the distance reported for the ______

A. caribou would be greater than 2,155 kilometers if the RTD method had been used.

B. caribou would be less than 3,807 kilometers if the RTD method had been used.

C. white-eared kob would be less than 400 kilometers if the GPS method had been used.

D. white-eared kob would be greater than 3,807 kilometers if the GPS method had been used.

Answer: B

4479. Which choice most logically completes the text? Scientists looking for signs of ancient life in Africa have found many examples of fossilized hominins, including in a geological formation at the Danakil Depression. However, to find even older specimens like early multicellular organisms from the Ediacaran period, scientists must look elsewhere, such as in the Ediacaran geological formation at Ediacara Hills in Oceania, because ______ A. Oceania has sites with hominins but not sites with early multicellular organisms. B. the hominins at Ediacara Hills are better preserved than the hominins at the Danakil Depression. C. early multicellular organisms are found at more sites around the world than hominins. D. that formation is from an earlier time than the formation with the hominins.
Answer: D

4481. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? In Puerto Rico, it's not unusual for a city or town to be known by a nickname that corresponds to one of its notable features, like landscape, climate, famous residents, or chief export. For example, the Puerto Rican municipality of Aibonito is well known for its lush ______ this distinction has earned it the fitting nickname of "the Garden of Puerto Rico." A. greenery; B. greenery, C. greenery and D. greenery
Answer: A

4612. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? ______ the mythological and heroic subject matter often found in works by Isidore Pils and other establishment figures, Jean-François Millet's painting The Gleaners instead focuses on something decidedly mundane: peasants picking stray wheat from a field after the harvest. A. Expounding B. Caricaturing C. Appraising D. Eschewing
Answer: D

4619. Based on the texts, how would Rose and colleagues (Text 2) most likely respond to the assertion by Slater and Mann (Text 1) about the different prevalence of female birdsong in temperate and tropical areas?
Text 1
For decades, ornithologists assumed that if they saw a singing Cassin's finch--a bird species found in temperate North America--they must be observing a male trying to attract a mate or claim territory. As Peter J.B. Slater and Nigel I. Mann have emphasized, however, a similar assumption can't be made about birds in the tropics, where females sing as often as males do. Slater and Mann call for more research on this discrepancy between tropical and temperate female birdsong.

Text 2 Recent evidence shows that a female Cassin's finch is as capable of song as a male is. In fact, female birdsong is more common among temperate species than currently assumed, claim Evangeline Rose and colleagues. These female songbirds sing less frequently than males do, and in duller tones, making it "easy for researchers to miss the quiet and hidden females and focus on the loud and colorful males," says Rose. A. They would concede that the geographic difference in prevalence is real but argue that the frequency with which male tropical birds sing has been overstated by previous researchers. B. They would argue that the apparent difference in prevalence may partly reflect a difference in the ease with which female birdsong and male birdsong can be detected. C. They would caution that the seeming difference in prevalence may be an artifact of researchers' tendency to study birdsong among temperate species more frequently than among tropical species. D. They would raise the possibility that the difference in prevalence may be due to differences in the timing of the mating season among temperate and tropical bird species.
Answer: B
4622. According to the text, which factors seemed to be linked to the behavior of butterflies in Grace Herzel and colleagues' study? Biologist Grace Herzel and colleagues conducted a study of how butterfly color and weather conditions relate to butterfly behavior, which wouldn't have been possible without data gathered by students and other amateur science enthusiasts in the community. Considering over three years' worth of data, the researchers found that white butterflies were observed on green flowers more often than any other butterflies were, and that butterflies were observed to feed more often on cloudy days than on other days. A. Both butterfly color and weather conditions B. Weather conditions but not butterfly color C. Butterfly color but not weather conditions D. Neither butterfly color nor weather conditions
Answer: A
4906. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? A study by Augusta D. Gaspar and Joana Carneiro Pinto found that a bank's corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts, including environmental and social campaigns, improve its corporate image. When CSR was mentioned in bank marketing strategies, favorability scores assigned by study participants tended to ______ the scores assigned by participants when CSR wasn't mentioned. A. identify B. replace C. exceed D. disturb
Answer: C
4907. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Researchers have long debated the origins of silver used in European coins from the 600s through the early 800s CE. Geochemical analysis by Kershaw et al. of 49 coins dating to 660-820 CE provides concrete evidence that reconciles two competing theories: early coins were made from Byzantine silver, and later coins used Frankish silver, findings that provide firm details in a previously ______ area of study. A. speculative B. authoritative C. esoteric D. solitary
Answer: A
4919. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? Writing in hieroglyphs, ancient Egyptians recorded measurements using units such as the khefa, a unit of ______ and the sa, a unit of area. The khefa, for instance, is written as a short, horizontal hieroglyph shaped like the back of a fist. A. length the khar, a unit of volume B. length; the khar; a unit of volume; C. length; the khar, a unit of volume; D. length, the khar; a unit of volume,
Answer: C
5072. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? E.M. Forster's classic 1905 novel about an English woman who travels to Italy has a title that is instantly recognizable to many readers: Where Angels Fear to Tread. Forster's novel originally had a different ______ while writing and editing, Forster had planned to call the novel The Rescue. A. title; though B. title, though C. title, though; D. title, though,
Answer: C
5210. Which finding from the model tests, if true, would support the researchers' hypothesis? Throughout history, tall structures such as Hwangnyongsa in South Korea or Ruwanwelisaya in Sri Lanka have posed a challenge to their architects, since these structures are more susceptible to physical forces than smaller structures. For example, the lower floors of a building must be able to support the enormous weight of the upper floors. To test a hypothesis that steel is more suitable than concrete for construction of a tall building's lower floors, researchers created a computer model of two buildings that were identical except that one had concrete lower floors while one had steel lower floors, and simulated the effects of the forces of wind and gravity on those structures over the course of a century. A. At the end of the simulation, the structure with steel lower floors had slightly larger dimensions at its base than it did at the beginning of the simulation. B. At the end of the simulation, the structure with concrete lower floors was several inches shorter than the structure with steel lower floors. C. During the simulation, when sudden forces caused vibrations in the structures, those vibrations took longer to disappear in the structure with steel lower floors than in the structure with concrete lower floors. D. During the simulation, the structure with steel lower floors bent in high wind to a greater degree than did the structure with concrete lower floors.
Answer: B
5212. Which choice most logically completes the text? There are over 150 species of the cactus genus Mammillaria throughout the Americas, but their survival can be threatened by high precipitation and dense vegetation that blocks sunlight. Researchers have located species from the genus in almost every state in Mexico, with several of them, like M. schumannii, restricted to only one state. The fact that this genus has not been observed in parts of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range has been attributed to a lack of appropriate habitat, but much of the landscape in this area is notoriously inaccessible, which suggests that ______ A. the current methods of collecting and tracking Mammillaria species throughout Mexico may cause an overestimation of the number of species in this genus. B. the dense vegetation and high annual precipitation levels in parts of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range impede the ability of Mammillaria species to survive. C. the perceived absence of Mammillaria in parts of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range may be due to insufficient exploration of the region. D. M. schumannii may have been overlooked in parts of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range because of its similarity to another species.
Answer: C
5504. Which finding about the Across County Lines exhibition, if true, would most directly support the underlined claim? The Reckoning and Resilience (2022) exhibition at Duke University's Nasher Museum of Art was the first to focus entirely on North Carolina artists since the exhibition Across County Lines four years earlier. The curators of the 2022 exhibition included painters like Renzo Ortega, photographers like Ashley Johnson, and mixed-media artists like Johannes Barfield. But whereas the work by Johnson would have fit the theme for Across County Lines, works by Ortega and Barfield would not have. A. It included a greater number of artists than Reckoning and Resilience. B. It consisted mostly of works by mixed-media artists. C. It was curated specifically to emphasize works that are not owned by the Nasher Museum. D. It consisted entirely of works by photographers.
Answer: D
5509. Which choice most logically completes the text? Studying animals in a laboratory allows variables to be systematically controlled, but removing animals from their wild habitats can affect their behavior and biology in unforeseen ways. Given this, biologists Rebecca M. Calisi-Rodríguez and George E. Bentley examined research on brown-throated three-toed sloths and canaries to see whether results from studies in the wild were consistent with the results of studies in the laboratory. Therefore, data showing that brown-throated three-toed sloths tend to sleep fewer than 10 hours per day in the wild would be irrelevant to Calisi-Rodríguez and Bentley's investigation if ______ A. this behavior pattern has not been studied in the lab. B. such data have been collected for canaries in laboratory settings but not in the wild. C. the brains of male canaries show predictable seasonal changes in the wild. D. they tend to sleep more than 15 hours per day in the lab.
Answer: A
5658. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? ______ a US state when it ratified the US Constitution on November 21, 1789, was thereby empowered, via its representatives to the US Congress, to vote on whether to admit Ohio as a state on March 1, 1803. A. North Carolina had officially become B. North Carolina officially became C. North Carolina, having officially become D. North Carolina would officially become
Answer: C
5790. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? The Hare dog of Canada predated European colonization of the Americas but later vanished due to interbreeding with other types of dogs. In contrast, the Xoloitzcuintli, whose origins in Mexico also predate colonization, has persisted. And DNA testing suggests that the Carolina dog of the rural Southeastern US descends partly from precolonial breeds, with European dog breeds ______ the bulk of its ancestry. A. obscuring B. increasing C. contributing D. seizing
Answer: C
5797. Which finding from Mulder and Spellman's study, if true, would most directly support the claim that plant species in boreal ecosystems may not exhibit the pattern seen in studies of plant species in other types of ecosystems? Port Clarence Indian paintbrush (Castilleja caudata) plants are native to Alaska, where the harsh boreal conditions historically impeded potential invasive species. In recent decades, however, bird vetch (Vicia cracca) plants have established themselves in Alaska. Studies have suggested that increasingly warm spring temperatures benefit invasive plant species more than native plant species, but no such studies have focused on boreal ecosystems despite similar temperature changes occurring there. To fill this gap, biologists Christa Mulder and Katie Spellman tracked C. caudata and V. cracca, along with other native and invasive species, over several years. A. Although C. caudata and V. cracca tended to produce leaves at about the same time in years with historically typical spring temperatures, V. cracca produced leaves sooner than C. caudata did in years with relatively high spring temperatures. B. Although C. caudata tended to produce fewer leaves per year than V. cracca did, interannual variations in spring temperatures during the study were within the historically typical range. C. Although C. caudata and V. cracca both tended to produce more leaves in years with relatively high spring temperatures than in years with historically typical spring temperatures, V. cracca showed a greater increase than C. caudata did. D. Although C. caudata and V. cracca tended to produce initial leaves at different times, the size of that difference did not vary from year to year despite substantial interannual increases in spring temperatures.
Answer: D
5806. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? To appreciate what scholars believe to be the allegorical intent of Fragonard's 18th-century painting ______ to embody the sense of excitement that infuses new relationships--a viewer must become familiar with the painting's symbolic elements. A. The Progress of Love: The Meeting, namely, B. The Progress of Love: The Meeting--namely, C. The Progress of Love: The Meeting, namely D. The Progress of Love: The Meeting, namely--
Answer: B
5937. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Water flowing through a river's hyporheic zone--i.e., the subsurface region where surface water mixes with groundwater--flows not only beneath but also ______ the channel. Indeed, by mapping aquatic organisms found in soil beyond a waterway's banks, scientists have shown the extent of the hyporheic zone's reach, which for a great river like the Congo can stretch up to 400 meters from the channel. A. contrary to B. deep under C. clockwise around D. adjacent to
Answer: D
5940. Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase? Using tracking tools such as depth loggers, Nicole Esteban and team studied the near-surface swimming behavior of species as different from each other as the loggerhead turtle and the pygmy blue whale. Their study departs from most depth-tracking research, which historically has ______ the deepest and longest dives. A. included B. simulated C. prioritized D. disregarded
Answer: C
5953. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? To appreciate what scholars believe to be the allegorical intent of Beuckelaer's 16th-century painting ______ to embody the idea of air's importance to human experience--a viewer must become familiar with the painting's symbolic elements. A. The Four Elements: Air, namely-- B. The Four Elements: Air, namely C. The Four Elements: Air, namely, D. The Four Elements: Air--namely,
Answer: D
6087. Which choice best states the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole? In The Jazz Continuum, LaTasha Barnes, Alain Lauture, and other dancers seamlessly interweave recent dance styles, including hip-hop and voguing, with elements of the Lindy Hop, a popular swing dance of the 1930s with roots in the Black American community of Harlem, New York. Inspired by Barnes's curiosity about the similarities between the Lindy Hop and these seemingly unrelated dance styles, the show's choreography makes visible how intertwined their histories actually are. The show is therefore a testament to the Lindy Hop's enduring influence on American culture. A. It addresses the reasons why the historical connections between the dance styles mentioned earlier in the text have been generally overlooked. B. It provides evidence for the text's claim that the Lindy Hop has had a greater cultural impact than the other dances featured in The Jazz Continuum have had. C. It identifies the specific ways in which the Lindy Hop is similar to the contemporary dance styles discussed in the text. D. It identifies the motivation for The Jazz Continuum's choreographic approach that is described earlier in the text.
Answer: D
6100. Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English? To appreciate what scholars believe to be the allegorical intent of Matsys's 16th-century painting ______ to embody the tension between material wealth and spiritual principles--a viewer must become familiar with the painting's symbolic elements. A. The Money Changer and His Wife--namely, B. The Money Changer and His Wife, namely, C. The Money Changer and His Wife, namely D. The Money Changer and His Wife, namely--
Answer: A

Section: Section 2, Module 1: Math, Difficulty: unknown (316 questions)
82. The price to rent an event space is 1,050 dollars for the first 3 hours and 250 dollars for each additional hour. What is the total price, in dollars, to rent the event space for 10 hours? A. 1,750 B. 2,800 C. 3,550 D. 4,900
Answer: B
83. A triathlon is a multisport race consisting of three different consecutive events. A triathlon participant plans to complete the cycling event with an average speed
of 33,792 yards per hour. What is this average speed, in miles per hour? (1 mile = 1,760 yards)
Answer: 19.2
84. If 5x + 4 = 34, what is the value of 50x + 40? A. 340 B. 90 C. 60 D. 6
Answer: A
85.

In the figure, line p is parallel to line r, and line t intersects both lines. What is the value of x? A. 25 B. 50 C. 180 D. 230
Answer: B

86. Which expression is equivalent to 6xy(2x2 + 7y)? A. 8x3y + 13xy2 B. 12x2y + 7y C. 12x2y + 42xy D. 12x3y + 42xy2
Answer: D

87. A total of 50 people attended a conference and were offered a choice of 4 types of entrees. The table shows the number of people who chose each type of
entree.

Type of entree Beef Chicken Fish Vegetarian
Total

Number of people
16 29 2 3 50

If one of these people is selected at random, what is the probability of selecting a person who chose a vegetarian entree? (Express your answer as a decimal or fraction, not as a percent.)

Answer: 3/50

88. The scatterplot shows the relationship between two variables, x and y.

Which of the following equations is the most appropriate linear model for the data shown?
A. y = 0.9 + 9.1x B. y = 0.9 - 9.1x C. y = 9.1 + 0.9x D. y = 9.1 - 0.9x
Answer: D

89. The length of a side of square X is 8 centimeters. The area of rectangle Y is 45 square centimeters. What is the total area, in square centimeters, of square X and
rectangle Y?
A. 154 B. 109 C. 106 D. 64
Answer: B

90. In each of the following data sets of 5 values, p is a constant. Which of these data sets has the largest standard deviation? A. p - 5, p - 5, p, p + 5, p + 5 B. p - 6, p, p, p, p + 6 C. p - 9, p - 6, p, p + 6, p + 9 D. p, p, p, p, p
Answer: C
x
91. The function f(x) = 900(0.5) 12 gives the predicted intensity of a beam f(x), in number of photons in the beam, x millimeters below the surface of a certain material. What is the best interpretation of f(12) = 450? A. A beam at the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 12 photons in the beam. B. A beam at the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 450 photons in the beam. C. A beam 12 millimeters below the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 450 photons in the beam. D. A beam 450 millimeters below the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 900 photons in the beam.
Answer: C

92. A certain university's research farm is 1,000 acres, of which 76 acres contain rice. What percentage of the acres of this research farm contain rice? A. 0.76% B. 7.6% C. 76% D. 760%
Answer: B

93.

Number of food tickets
10 15 25

Total amount paid
$34.00 $41.50 $56.50

At a fundraiser, a family pays a fixed entrance fee. They then purchase food tickets, which each have the same cost. The table shows the relationship between the
number of food tickets, x, that are purchased and the total amount paid y, in dollars, for both the entrance fee and the food tickets. Which equation represents the relationship between x and y?

A. y =

3 x + 19
2

B. y = 3 x - 41
2

C. y = 2 x + 82

3

3

D. y = 2 x + 38

3

3

Answer: A

94. b2 + 4c = 7d
4

The given equation relates the real numbers b, c, and d, where d > 7 c. Which equation correctly expresses b in terms of c and d? A. b = 7d+4c
2
B. b = 7d-4c
2
C. b = ±7d + 4c D. b = ±7d - 4c
Answer: D
95. The graph of 4x + y = 19 in the xy-plane is a line. What is the slope of the line?
Answer: -4
96. The function f is defined by f(x) = x+17 , and f(a) = -19, where a is a constant. What is the value of a?
5
A. -112 B. -78 C. - 78
5
D. - 2
5
Answer: A
97. A linear function g is defined by g(x) = ax + b, where a and b are constants. If g(-4) = -6 and g(3) = 8, what is the value of a?
Answer: 2
98. h(t) = -16t2 + b The function h estimates an object's height, in feet, above the ground t seconds after the object is dropped, where b is a constant. The function estimates that the object is 43.56 feet above the ground when it is dropped at t = 0. How many seconds after being dropped does the function estimate the object will hit the ground?
Answer: 1.65
99. |3x-54|+3 = 9
6
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 1 B. 35 C. 36 D. 54
Answer: C
100. 8x - 3y = 3y + 9 hy = 2 + 8x
In the given system of equations, h is a constant. If the system has no solution, what is the value of h?
Answer: 6
101.
In triangle QRS shown, QR < RS. Which expression represents the length of QS? A. 22 cos Q B. 22 sin Q
C. 22 cos Q D. 22 sin Q Answer: D
102.

The shaded region shown represents the solutions to which inequality?
A. y > 2x - 15 B. y < 2x - 15 C. y > 10x - 15 D. y < 10x - 15
Answer: C
103.

The graph of the equation y = 4x + k is shown, where k is a constant. What is the value of k? A. -5 B. -4 C. 4 D. 5
Answer: A
229. Which expression is equivalent to 18(x2 - 8)? A. 18x2 - 144 B. 18x2 - 26 C. 18x2 - 8 D. 18x2 + 10
Answer: A
230. In the xy-plane, the graph of the equation y = 5x is translated 3 units down. What is an equation of the resulting graph? A. y = 5x + 3 B. y = 5x - 3 C. y = 5(x+3) D. y = 5(x-3)
Answer: B

231. If 5x + 3 = 38, what is the value of 50x + 30? A. 380 B. 80 C. 70 D. 7
Answer: A

232. The equation 66 = 2x + 2y gives the perimeter of a rectangular garden that has length x, in feet, and width y, in feet. The width of the garden is 8 feet. What is
the length, in feet, of the garden?
Answer: 25

233. The function f is defined by f(x) = 6x - 3. If f(a) + 1 = 5a, what is the value of a? A. -1 B. 1 C. 2 D. 11
Answer: C

234. The function f

is defined by f(x)

=

2x -

1 . What is the y-intercept of the graph of y
8

=

f(x) in the xy-plane?

A.

(0,

-

1 8

)

B. (0, -2)

C. (0, 2)

D. (0, 8)

Answer: A

236.

In the figure shown, line k intersects lines r and s. If w = 118, which additional piece of information is sufficient to prove that lines r and s are parallel? A. x = 62 B. y = 118 C. w + y = 180 D. y + z = 180
Answer: B

237. Line q in the xy-plane passes through the points (0, 20) and (1, 44). Which equation defines line q?

A. 24x - y + 20 = 0

B. 24x - y +

1 20

=0

C. 24x - y -

1 20

=0

D. 24x - y - 20 = 0

Answer: A

238. The sides of a rectangle are such that the length is 11 centimeters more than 8 times the width, in centimeters. If the width of the rectangle is 5 centimeters,
what is the area, in square centimeters, of the rectangle?
Answer: 255

240. The scatterplot shows the relationship between two variables, x and y. A line of best fit for the data is also shown.

For how many of the 9 data points is the actual y-value greater than the y-value predicted by the line of best fit? A. 8 B. 7 C. 5 D. 2
Answer: C
242.

The function f is defined by f(x) = ax+b + k, where a, b, c, and k are constants. The graph of y = f(x) is shown. For how many values of x does f(x) = 0?
x+c
A. Three B. Two C. One D. Zero Answer: C
243.
The area of triangle ABC is 250 square centimeters. What is the height h, in centimeters, of this triangle? A. 10 B. 25 C. 50 D. 100
Answer: C
244. y = 5x - 15 4x + y = 48
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x + y?
Answer: 27
245. A circle in the xy-plane has its center at (9, 6) and has a radius of length 4. Which equation represents this circle? A. (x + 9)2 + (y + 6)2 = 4 B. (x - 9)2 + (y - 6)2 = 4 C. (x + 9)2 + (y + 6)2 = 16 D. (x - 9)2 + (y - 6)2 = 16
Answer: D
246. There is a proportional relationship between p and t. If p = 5,610 when t = 7,480, then what is the value of t when p = 4,488? A. 2,618 B. 3,366 C. 5,984 D. 6,358
Answer: C
247. |4x-48|+4 = 8
6
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 1 B. 23 C. 24 D. 48
Answer: C
248. a, 26, 28, b, 33, 49, c For the given data set, the data values are listed in ascending order, where a, b, and c are constants. For this data set, the mean is 35, the median is 28, and the range is 71. What is the value of c? A. 55 B. 71 C. 76 D. 97
Answer: C
249. The function f is defined by f(x) = 55(0.12)x. For any positive integer n, the value of f(n) is p% less than the value of f(n - 1). What is the value of p? A. 12 B. 45 C. 55 D. 88
Answer: D
250. The quadratic equation (7x - 64)2 = a, where a is a constant, has exactly one real solution. What is the value of a?
Answer: 0
376. A dog walker charges $19 per walk. Which equation gives the total amount t, in dollars, that the dog walker charges for w walks? A. t = w + 19 B. 19 = t + w C. t = 19w D. 19 = tw
Answer: C
377. s = 20 + 3t The equation gives the speed s, in miles per hour, of a certain car t seconds after it began to accelerate. What is the speed, in miles per hour, of the car 5 seconds
after it began to accelerate?
A. 20 B. 23 C. 25 D. 35
Answer: D
378. The function f is defined by f(x) = 2 + x. What is the value of f(144)? A. 0 B. 14 C. 38 D. 74
Answer: B
381. During a trip, Bill drove his car for 18.0 miles and then began driving at a constant speed of 60.0 miles per hour. After 2 hours of driving at this speed, what is
the total distance, in miles, Bill has traveled during this trip? Answer: 138
382. A survey was conducted in Madison to estimate the percent of adult residents who support the addition of a gas station at a popular intersection in their town.
Based on the survey, it is estimated that 27% of all adult residents of Madison support the addition of a gas station at a popular intersection in their town, with an associated margin of error of 6%. Which of the following is the most appropriate conclusion about all adult residents of Madison? A. Plausible values for the percent of all adult residents of Madison who support the addition of a gas station at a popular intersection in their town are between 21% and 33%.
B. Plausible values for the percent of all adult residents of Madison who support the addition of a gas station at a popular intersection in their town are either less than
21% or more than 33%. C. The addition of a gas station at a popular intersection in the town is supported by exactly 21% of all adult residents of Madison. D. The addition of a gas station at a popular intersection in the town is supported by more than 33% of all adult residents of Madison.
Answer: A
384. For the function f, the table shows four values of x and their corresponding values of f(x). x f(x) 1 7,000 2 2,800 3 1,120 4 448
Which of the following could describe this function? A. Increasing linear B. Decreasing linear C. Increasing exponential D. Decreasing exponential Answer: D
385.

In the figure shown, lines  and k are parallel and line t intersects both lines. If x > 145, which of the following must be true? A. y < 35 B. y > 35 C. x + y < 180 D. x + y > 180
Answer: A
386. James purchased a certain baseball card on January 1. The function f(x) = 85(1.03)x, where 0  x  10, gives the predicted value, in dollars, of the baseball card x years after James purchased it. What is the best interpretation of the statement "f(8) is approximately equal to 108" in this context? A. When the baseball card's predicted value is approximately 108 dollars, it is 8% greater than the predicted value, in dollars, on January 1 of the previous year. B. When the baseball card's predicted value is approximately 108 dollars, it is 8 times the predicted value, in dollars, on January 1 of the previous year. C. From the day James purchased the baseball card to 8 years after James purchased the card, its predicted value increased by a total of approximately 108 dollars. D. 8 years after James purchased the baseball card, its predicted value is approximately 108 dollars.
Answer: D

387. A group of 10 gardeners recorded data on the germination rates of their tomato crop for one growing season. The scatterplot shows the relationship between the number of tomato seeds planted, x, and the number of tomato seeds that germinated, y, for each of the gardeners. A line of best fit is also shown.
y 500

400

300

200

100

x

O

100 200 300 400 500

Which of the following is the best interpretation of the slope of the line of best fit in this context?

A. The number of tomato seeds planted is predicted to increase by 70 seeds every 100 days.

B. The number of tomato seeds planted is predicted to increase by 350 seeds every 100 days.

C. The number of tomato seeds that germinate is predicted to increase by 70 seeds for every additional 100 tomato seeds that are planted.

D. The number of tomato seeds that germinate is predicted to increase by 350 seeds for every additional 100 tomato seeds that are planted.

Answer: C

388. Line t in the xy-plane has a slope of

1 4

and passes through the point (12, -8). Which equation defines line t?

A. y

=

-11x +

1 4

B. y =

x 4

- 11

C. y =

x 4

-8

D. y = 12x - 8

Answer: B

390. A line in the xy-plane passes through the points (7, 1), (0, 4), and (c, 0). What is the value of c?
Answer: 28/3

391. How many solutions does the equation 3(x + 11) + 8x = 11(x + 3) have?
A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero
Answer: C
393. |6x-72|+6 = 8
9
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 1 B. 23 C. 24

D. 72
Answer: C
523. If 6x + 2 = 44, what is the value of 60x + 20? A. 7 B. 70 C. 80 D. 440
Answer: D
524. The function g is defined by g(x) = 6x + 10. What is the value of g(x) when x = 10? A. 0 B. 6 C. 10 D. 70
Answer: D
525. An event planner is planning an ice-skating event. It costs the event planner a onetime fee of $50 to rent the skating rink and $15.50 per attendee. The event planner has a budget of $225. What is the greatest number of attendees possible without exceeding the budget?
Answer: 11
526. What is the y-intercept of the graph of y = 4x2 + 3x + 8 in the xy-plane? A. (0, 3) B. (0, 4) C. (0, 8) D. (0, 15)
Answer: C
527.

In the figure, lines r and s are parallel. If x = 7k + 19 and y = 9k - 17, what is the value of k? A. 18 B. 35 C. 145 D. 162
Answer: A
530. 5x + 3 = rx + 7 In the given equation, r is a constant. The equation has no solution. What is the value of r? A. 21 B. 8 C. 7 D. 5
Answer: D
534.
A marine biologist is studying a habitat that contains shoal bass, a species of freshwater fish. The box plot shown summarizes the lengths, in centimeters (cm), of a
sample of 75 shoal bass from this habitat. What is the range, in cm, of the lengths of the shoal bass in the sample? A. 14 B. 19 C. 30 D. 45
Answer: B
537. f(x) = 5x + 6 g(x) = 7x - 5 h(x) = 2x + 3
The functions f, g, and h are defined as shown. If f(x)  g(x) - h(x) = ax2 + bx + c, where a, b, and c are constants, what is the value of b? A. -2 B. 15 C. 19 D. 65
Answer: B
539. f(x) = 10(x2 + 33)
What is the minimum value of the given function?
A. 0.1 B. 3.3 C. 10 D. 330
Answer: D
540. Which measure, in radians, is equivalent to (47  180)°? A. 47 B.  + 47 C. - 47 D.  - 47
Answer: A
541. |4x-56|+4 = 7
8
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 1 B. 27 C. 28 D. 56
Answer: C
544. A beekeeper's initial observation of the population of a certain bee colony was 1,800 bees. The beekeeper set a goal to increase the population to 3,300 bees. The beekeeper uses a model that predicts the population of this bee colony begins at 1,800 and increases by 120 bees per week in the first two weeks after the initial observation, and then increases by 180 bees per week until the beekeeper's goal is reached. According to this model, at the end of week w after the initial observation, where w > 2, which of the following functions gives the predicted number of bees still needed to reach the beekeeper's goal? A. p(w) = 3,300 - 180w B. p(w) = 3,180 + 180w C. p(w) = 1,620 - 180w D. p(w) = -120 + 180w
Answer: C
670. The equation d = 25w + 100 gives the total amount of money d, in dollars, that Jerome plans to save w weeks after he starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars, he plans to save in 10 weeks? A. 300 B. 350 C. 400 D. 450
Answer: B
671. If 4x + 5 = 37, what is the value of 40x + 50? A. 370 B. 90 C. 80 D. 8
Answer: A
672. In the ancient Roman measurement system, a leuga was a unit of length that was equal to 7,500 pedes. In this measurement system, how many pedes were equivalent to 2.5 leugas?
Answer: 18750
673. For a project, Kayla recorded the heights of 25 people in her neighborhood. The histogram summarizes the heights, in inches (in), of these 25 people in Kayla's neighborhood. The first bar represents people with a height of at least 50 in but less than 53 in. The second bar represents people with a height of at least 53 in but less than 56 in, and so on.

How many of these 25 people in Kayla's neighborhood had a height of at least 50 in but less than 56 in?
Answer: 10

674. r > 0.54t The given inequality describes the total rainfall r, in inches, in a certain area over a period of t hours, where t  4. Which of the following describes this rainfall? A. An average rainfall of exactly 0.54 inches per hour B. An average rainfall of more than 0.54 inches per hour C. A total rainfall of more than 4 inches D. A total rainfall of exactly 4 inches
Answer: B

675. The measures of the interior angles of triangle ABC are 22°, 44°, and x°. What is the value of x? A. 22 B. 66 C. 114 D. 180
Answer: C

677. The length of a side of square X is 7 centimeters. The area of rectangle Y is 32 square centimeters. What is the total area, in square centimeters, of square X and
rectangle Y?
A. 113 B. 81 C. 78 D. 49
Answer: B
678. P (t) = 22.5(1.036)t The function P gives the predicted population, in millions, of a certain country for the period from 1984 to 2018, where t is the number of years after 1984. According to this function, what is the best interpretation of the statement "P (8) is approximately equal to 29.86"? A. In 1984, the predicted population of this country was approximately 8 million. B. In 1984, the predicted population of this country was approximately 29.86 million. C. 29.86 years after 1984, the predicted population of this country was approximately 8 million. D. 8 years after 1984, the predicted population of this country was approximately 29.86 million.
Answer: D
679. The graph of y = ( 1 )x + 1 in the xy-plane is shifted up 4 units. What is an equation of the resulting graph?
6
A. y = ( 61 )(x+4) + 1 B. y = ( 61 )(x-4) + 1 C. y = 4( 1 )x + 1
6
D. y = ( 1 )x + 5
6
Answer: D

680. In the xy-plane, the graph of y = 7x intersects the graph of y = x2 - 18 at two points. What is the sum of the x-coordinates of the two points of intersection? A. -18 B. -2 C. 7 D. 9
Answer: C

681. The function f is defined by f(x)

=

7( 1
4

- x)2 +

15 4

.

What

is

the

value

of

f

(

1 4

)?

Answer: 15/4

683. 2x + 3y = 32 If the graph of the given equation is shifted up 10 units in the xy-plane, what is the y-intercept of the resulting graph? A. (0, 62 )
3
B. (0, 32 )
3
C. (0, 42) D. (0, 28 )
3
Answer: A

684. x2 - 2x = 29
What is one of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 29 B. 1 + 30 C. 30 D. 29 + 2
Answer: B

685. 32 x - 17 y = 29

x + 2y = -10

The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x + y?

A. -10

B. -4

C. 4

D. 10

Answer: C

686. There is a proportional relationship between p and t. If p = 2,520 when t = 3,360, then what is the value of t when p = 2,016? A. 2,856 B. 2,688 C. 1,512 D. 1,176
Answer: B

687.

Line k is shown in the xy-plane. Line j (not shown) is perpendicular to line k and passes through the point (-20, -25). Which equation defines line j?

A. y =

3 4

x

-

10

B. y =

3 4

x

-

40

C. y =

4 x - 10
3

D. y =

4 x - 40
3

Answer: A

688. |3x-63|+3 = 7
9
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 1 B. 41 C. 42 D. 63
Answer: C

690. A circle has center P , and points A and B lie on the circle. The measure of arc AB is 15° and the length of arc AB is 6 units. What is the length, in units, of
the radius of the circle?
Answer: 72

691. r(x) = 8(x - 3) s(x) = x3 + nx2 + 3nx + 27
For the given functions r and s, n is a constant. If r(x)  s(x) = 8(x4 - 81), what is the value of n?
Answer: 3

817. The scatterplot shows the relationship between two variables, x and y. A line of best fit is also shown.

Which of the following equations best represents the line of best fit shown?
A. y = -x - 5.4 B. y = -x + 5.4 C. y = x - 5.4 D. y = x + 5.4
Answer: D
818. Q = M
33
The given equation relates the quantities M and Q. Which equation correctly expresses M in terms of Q? A. M = Q
33
B. M = 33Q C. M = Q + 33 D. M = Q - 33
Answer: B
820. The measures of the interior angles of triangle ABC are 31°, 62°, and x°. What is the value of x? A. 31 B. 87 C. 93 D. 180
Answer: B
822. A line in the xy-plane has a slope of 0 and passes through the point (9, 8). Which equation represents this line? A. y = 8 B. y = 9 C. y = 8x D. y = 9x
Answer: A
823. y = 3,400(a)x The given equation, where a is a positive constant, gives the predicted number of bacteria, y, in a growth medium x hours after the number of bacteria was initially
measured. According to the equation, what was the predicted number of bacteria initially measured in the growth medium? Answer: 3400
824. If 8x - 10 = 6, what is the value of 8x + 10? A. -4 B. 2 C. 12 D. 26
Answer: D 825.
The figure shown is a right rectangular pyramid, where  = 16 units, w = 8 units, and h = 18 units. What is the surface area, in square units, of the pyramid?
Answer: 128+32*sqrt(85)+16*sqrt(97)
829. (7x + 4)(8x - 7) = 0
Which of the following is a solution to the given equation?
A. - 74 B. - 87 C. - 7
8
D. - 47
Answer: D 830.
Triangle XY Z shown is a right triangle. Which of the following has the same value as sin X? A. tan X B. tan Y C. cos X D. cos Y
Answer: D 831.
The graph of the function f, where y = f(x), gives the total cost y, in dollars, for a certain video game system and x games. What is the best interpretation of the
slope of the graph in this context?
A. Each game costs $17. B. The video game system costs $17. C. Each game costs $150. D. The video game system costs $150.
Answer: A 832.
xy -2 -21 0 -13

2 -5 The table gives three values of x and their corresponding values of y. There is a linear relationship between x and y that can be represented by the equation y = mx + b, where m and b are constants. What is the value of m + b?
Answer: -9

833. The table shows the distribution of people in a certain city by age group.

Age group
Less than 18 years old 18-40 years old 41-65 years old Greater than 65 years old

Proportion
27% 21% 29% 23%

If a person in this city is selected at random, which of the following is closest to the probability of selecting a person who is greater than 65 years old, given that the person is at least 18 years old?

A. 0.23

B. 0.32

C. 0.50

D. 0.85

Answer: B

834. What is the y-intercept of y = -(6)x - 37 in the xy-plane? A. (0, -38) B. (0, -43) C. (0, -37) D. (0, -36)
Answer: A

837. Which of the following expressions is(are) a factor of 3x2 + 16x - 35? I. x - 7 II. 3x - 5
A. I only B. II only C. I and II D. Neither I nor II
Answer: B

838. A machine makes 7-inch, 9-inch, and 4-inch parts. During a certain day, the number of 7-inch parts that the machine makes is 5 times the number n of 9-inch parts, and the number of 4-inch parts is 4. During this day, the machine makes 100 parts total. Which equation represents this situation? A. 7(5n) + 9n + 4(4) = 100 B. 7n + 9n + 4n = 100 C. 5n + 4 = 100 D. 6n + 4 = 100
Answer: D

964. The equation d = 23w + 100 gives the total amount of money d, in dollars, that Jerome plans to save w weeks after he starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars, he plans to save in 10 weeks? A. 280 B. 330 C. 380 D. 430
Answer: B

966. A jar has 610 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are orange. How many marbles in the jar are orange? A. 122 B. 244 C. 305 D. 590
Answer: A

968.

The scatterplot shows the relationship between the square footage of 12 clothing stores and their annual sales, in millions of dollars. According to the trend shown by the data, which of the following is the best prediction for the annual sales, in millions of dollars, of a clothing store that is 4 thousand square feet? A. 10.1 B. 7.4 C. 5.4 D. 4.1
Answer: B

969. The function f is defined by f(x) =

1 4x

.

What

is

the

value

of

f(x)

when

x

=

9?

Answer: 1/36

971. If 8x - 9 = 7, what is the value of 8x + 9? A. -2 B. 2 C. 11 D. 25
Answer: D

973.

Triangles ABC and ABC  are shown. Triangle ABC is dilated by a scale factor of 6 to form triangle ABC . If the length of AB is 18, what is the length of AB ? A. 3 B. 6 C. 24 D. 108
Answer: D

975. Line q is defined by y = - 1 x - 1 . Line r is perpendicular to line q in the xy-plane. What is the slope of line r?

5

2

A. 7

B. 5

C. 3

D. 2

Answer: B

977. One of the factors of 8x4 + 46x2 + 63 is ax2 + b, where a and b are positive constants. Which of the following is a possible value of ab? A. 7 B. 18 C. 28 D. 36
Answer: D

979. In the xy-plane, which of the following does NOT contain any points that are part of the solution set to 4x - 9y > 36? A. The region where x < 0 and y > 0 B. The region where x < 0 and y < 0 C. The region where x > 0 and y > 0
D. The x-axis
Answer: A

980. Square A has side lengths that are 72 times the side lengths of square B. The area of square A is k times the area of square B. What is the value of k? A. 36 B. 72 C. 144 D. 5,184
Answer: D

981. The area of a triangle is 33 square inches. The length of the base of the triangle, in inches, is the sum of 14 and a positive number d, and the height, in inches, is 5 less than d. What is the value of d?
Answer: 8

1111. If 8x + 6 = 78, what is the value of 80x + 60? A. 9 B. 90 C. 140 D. 780
Answer: D

1113. r + g < 40 For which of the following tables are all the values of r and their corresponding values of g solutions to the given inequality?
A.
rg 0 39 2 37 4 35
B.
rg 0 37 2 39 4 35
C.
rg 0 35 2 39 4 37
D.
rg 0 35 2 37 4 39
Answer: A

1114. Which equation has no solution?
A. 14x + 7 = 7(2x + 1) B. 14x + 11 = -14x - 11 C. 14x + 1 = 2x + 1 D. 14x + 70 = 7(2x + 4)
Answer: D
1115. What is the y-intercept of the graph of y = 8x2 + 7x + 9 in the xy-plane? A. (0, 7) B. (0, 8) C. (0, 9) D. (0, 24)
Answer: C
1122. One of the factors of 6x4 + 29x2 + 28 is ax2 + b, where a and b are positive constants. Which of the following is a possible value of ab? A. 4 B. 8 C. 14 D. 21
Answer: C

1127.
xy 0r 4 r - 24 8 r - 48
For a linear relationship between x and y, the table gives three values of x and their corresponding values of y in terms of a constant r. What is the slope of the line in
the xy-plane that represents this relationship?
A. -24 B. -6 C. 6 D. 24
Answer: B

1129. |2x - 3| = -8
How many solutions does the given equation have? A. Zero B. One C. Two D. Infinitely many
Answer: A

1131. A certain town has an area of 3.85 square miles. What is the area, in square yards, of this town? (1 mile = 1,760 yards) A. 457 B. 6,776 C. 804,571 D. 11,925,760
Answer: D

1258. The equation d = 39w + 100 gives the total amount of money d, in dollars, that Janna plans to save w weeks after she starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars, she plans to save in 10 weeks? A. 440 B. 490 C. 540 D. 590
Answer: B

1259. In triangle XY Z, two of the angles have the same measure. If the measure of angle X is 92° and the measure of angle Y is 44°, what is the measure of angle Z? A. 180° B. 92° C. 88° D. 44°
Answer: D

1261. The perimeter of a triangle is 25 inches. The length of one side of the triangle is 9 inches. The other two sides have equal lengths. What is the length, in inches,
of one of the two sides with equal lengths?
Answer: 8

1262. A furniture company is selling all tables with a 20% discount off their original price for the month of October. What is the discount, in dollars, on a table with an original price of $170? A. 150 B. 130 C. 68 D. 34
Answer: D

1263. When the polynomial function g is graphed in the xy-plane such that y = g(x), it passes through the points (6, 0), (7, 0), and (0, 13). Which of the following
must be true?
I. When g(x) is divided by (x - 6), the remainder is 0. II. The point (7, 0) is an x-intercept of the graph of y = g(x). III. When g(x) is divided by (x - 13), the remainder is 0.
A. II only B. I and II only C. I and III only D. I, II, and III
Answer: B

1264. 5x + 12 = 2(8 + 6x)
Which of the following is equivalent to the given equation?
A. x = -2 B. x = 4 C. 7x = -4 D. 7x = 4
Answer: C

1265. A campaign organizer is setting up tables for an event. The tables come in two sizes: small and large. Each of the small tables can seat 6 people and each of the large tables can seat 8 people. The event needs to seat at least 95 people. Which inequality represents this situation, where x is the number of small tables and y
is the number of large tables the organizer is setting up for the event?
A. 6x + 8y  95 B. 6x + 8y  95 C. 8x + 6y  95 D. 8x + 6y  95
Answer: A

1269. A triangle has a base length of 27 units and a corresponding height of 15 units. If the area of the triangle is

1 k square units, what is the value of k?
2

Answer: 405

1270. For the linear function f, the graph of y = f(x) in the xy-plane has a slope of 0 and passes through the point (0, 36). Which equation defines f? A. f(x) = x + 36 B. f(x) = 36x C. f(x) = 0 D. f(x) = 36
Answer: D

1271. The list gives the number of individuals in each of 6 groups of ring-tailed lemurs. 14, 5, 17, 14, 15, 7
What is the range of the numbers of individuals for the 6 groups of ring-tailed lemurs?
Answer: 12

1272. If 2(x - 3) = (2)(90), what is the value of x - 3? A. 30 B. 60 C. 90 D. 180
Answer: C

1273. A region has a total area of 270 square feet. Within the region, there are n objects. Which expression represents the average number of objects per square foot
within this region? A. n 270
B. ( n )2
270
C. 270n D. (270n)2
Answer: A

-1
1274. Which expression is equivalent to (4 p17) , where p > 1?

17
A. -p 4

B.

1
17

p4

C. p- 174

4
D. p 17

Answer: B

1277. 19x - 21y = 31 7x + 14y = 59
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y) = ( p , w ), where p and w are integers. What is the value of p?
59 826
Answer: 239

1279. x2 + xt + y2 - y - 73 = 0 The given equation, where t is a constant, defines a circle in the xy-plane. The radius of this circle is 91. What is the value of t? A. 35 B. 37 C. 71 D. 73
Answer: C
1407. The function f is defined by f(x) = 2 + x. What is the value of f(100)? A. 0 B. 12 C. 27 D. 52
Answer: B

1409. A furniture company is selling all tables with a 20% discount off their original price for the month of February. What is the discount, in dollars, on a table with an original price of $230? A. 46 B. 92 C. 190 D. 210
Answer: A

1411. A campaign organizer is setting up tables for an event. The tables come in two sizes: small and large. Each of the small tables can seat 4 people and each of the large tables can seat 8 people. The event needs to seat at least 85 people. Which inequality represents this situation, where x is the number of small tables and y is
the number of large tables the organizer is setting up for the event?
A. 4x + 8y  85 B. 4x + 8y  85 C. 8x + 4y  85 D. 8x + 4y  85
Answer: A

1413. 10x + 35y = 11
The given equation is one equation in a system of two linear equations. The system has more than one solution. Which of the following equations could be the other equation in the system?
I. 12x + 42y = 11 II. 35x + 10y = 11
A. I only B. II only C. I and II D. Neither I nor II
Answer: D

1422.

In the figure, lines m and n are parallel and line t intersects both lines. If a = 5x + 62 and b =

1 2

x

+

45.4,

what

is

the

value

of

x?

Answer: 13.2

1423. |3x-24|+3 = 4
6
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 1 B. 15 C. 16

D. 24
Answer: C
1426. x2 + xt + y2 - y - 45 = 0 The given equation, where t is a constant, defines a circle in the xy-plane. The radius of this circle is 62. What is the value of t? A. 33 B. 35 C. 67 D. 69
Answer: C
1552. A carnival receives $10 for each adult admission ticket sold and $5 for each child admission ticket sold. On a particular day, the carnival received a total of $3,950 from selling adult and child admission tickets. If 230 adult admission tickets were sold on that day, how many child admission tickets were sold?
Answer: 330
1553. The function f(x) = 43.50 - 0.28x gives a person's estimated grip strength, in kilograms, x years after the person's grip strength was first measured. Based on the function, what is this person's estimated grip strength, in kilograms, 32.50 years after the person's grip strength was first measured? A. 10.72 B. 34.40 C. 43.50 D. 52.60
Answer: B
1554. 10x = 110 9x - 94 = y
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of y? A. 94 B. 11 C. 10 D. 5
Answer: D
1555. The function g is defined by g(x) = x + 600. What is the value of g(x) when x = 64? A. 8 B. 600 C. 608 D. 664
Answer: C
1556. Which of the following is a factor of -24x2 - 6x? A. -24x B. -10x C. -6x D. -4x
Answer: C
1557. If 15x = 13x + 10, what is the value of 7x?
Answer: 35
1558.
x f(x) -1 -24 0 -23 1 -22 2 -15 The table shows several values of x and their corresponding values of f(x) for the polynomial function f. Which of the following could define f? A. f(x) = x3 B. f(x) = x3 - 23 C. f(x) = x3 + 23 D. f(x) = (x - 23)3
Answer: B
1559.

In the circle, O is the center and AOB is a right angle. If the area of the shaded region is 37 square units, what is the length, in units, of OA? A. 74 B. 148 C. 148 D. 592
Answer: C

1560. In DEF , the measure of D is 143°. Which of the following could be the measure, in degrees, of E? A. 36 B. 38 C. 90 D. 144
Answer: A

1561. Rebecca is collecting 40-milliliter samples of river water and 15-milliliter samples of lake water. She needs to collect a total of at least 770 milliliters of river water and lake water, where the number of samples of lake water is twice the number of samples of river water. Which inequality represents this situation, where x is
the number of samples of river water that Rebecca needs to collect?
A. 40(2x) + 15x  770 B. 40(2x) + 15x  770 C. 40x + 15(2x)  770 D. 40x + 15(2x)  770
Answer: D

1562. w(w + 89) The given expression represents the area, in square centimeters, of a rectangle, where w represents the width, in centimeters (cm), of the rectangle. What is the best interpretation of w + 89 in this context? A. The length of the rectangle is 89 cm. B. The width of the rectangle is 89 cm. C. The length of the rectangle is 89 cm greater than the width of the rectangle. D. The width of the rectangle is 89 cm greater than the length of the rectangle.
Answer: C
1563. y = 7,200(0.85)x The given equation estimates the value, in dollars, of a certain car x years after it was purchased. According to the given equation, what was the estimated value, in
dollars, of the car at the time it was purchased?
A. 720 B. 6,120 C. 7,200 D. 8,500
Answer: C

1564. y
12

10

8

6

4

2

x

O

2

4

6

8

10

Which of the following equations is the most appropriate linear model for the data shown in the scatterplot?

A. y = 1.74 - 11.98x

B. y = 11.98 + 4.74x

C. y = 11.98 - 1.74x

D. y = -11.98 - 1.74x

Answer: C

1565. Data set J: 18, 18, 19, 19, 20, 21, 21, 22, 22 Data set K: 18, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 22
The lists give the values in data sets J and K. Which of the following statistics is greater for data set J than it is for data set K? A. Mean B. Median C. Range D. Standard deviation
Answer: D

1567. (x - 18)(x - 14)(x + 7)(x + 11) = 0
What is a positive solution to the given equation? Answer: 14

1568.
xy -12 76 -6 52
64 12 -20 The table shows four values of x and their corresponding values of y. There is a linear relationship between x and y. Which of the following equations represents this
relationship?
A. 24x + 6y = 28 B. 24x + 6y = 168 C. 6x + 24y = 28 D. 6x + 24y = 168
Answer: B
1569. If xy = 5 and 2txy = 70, what is the value of t?
A. 17 B. 2
5
C. 5
2
D. 7
Answer: A

1571. A real estate company offers a series of three webinars. 3,750 people attended the first webinar. 72% of the people who attended the first webinar attended the second webinar, and 40% of the people who attended both the first and second webinar attended the third webinar. Of those who attended the first but did not attend the second webinar, 32% attended the third webinar. How many people attended both the first and third webinars but did not attend the second webinar?
Answer: 336

1572. t(v - 95) + t = w

The given equation relates the positive numbers w, t, and v. Which equation correctly expresses v in terms of t and w?

A. v =

w t

+ 94

B. v =

w t

- 95

C. v = w-t + 94
t

D. v = w-t - 95
t

Answer: A

1699. An object's average acceleration, in meters per second squared, is the change in the object's speed, in meters per second, divided by the time during which
the change occurred, in seconds. A certain object's speed changes by 12 meters per second in 5 seconds. What is this object's average acceleration, in meters per
second squared, during this time period?
A. 0.42 B. 2.4 C. 7 D. 17
Answer: B

1700. Which expression is equivalent to 2x2 + 9x? A. x(2x + 9) B. 2x(x + 9) C. 9x(2x + 1) D. x2(2x + 9)
Answer: A

1701. 29x + 10x = 1 What value of x is the solution to the given equation? A. 1
B. 1
10
C. 1
29
D. 1
39
Answer: D

1704. f(x) = 25x + 600 The function f gives the monthly fee f(x), in dollars, a storage company charges to keep x boxes in its warehouse. What is the monthly fee, in dollars, the company charges to keep 40 boxes in its warehouse?
Answer: 1600

1705. A square has a side length of 32 inches. What is the area, in square inches, of the square? A. 1,024 B. 128 C. 64 D. 32
Answer: A

1707. Three line segments have different lengths: 28, 52, and p. Which statement provides sufficient information to prove that a triangle can be formed with these
three segments as its sides?
A. p > 24 B. 28 < p < 52 C. p < 80
D. No additional information is necessary to determine that a triangle can be formed with these three segments as its sides.
Answer: B

1708. Two candidates ran for the office of mayor of a town. A total of 4,020 votes were cast, and one candidate received twice as many votes as the other. How many
votes did the winning candidate receive?
A. 3,015 B. 2,680 C. 2,010 D. 1,340
Answer: B

1710. A soccer team needs new equipment. The team will buy soccer balls for $19.50 each and shin guards for $10.25 per pair. The soccer team cannot spend more than $550 on this equipment. Every player needs a pair of shin guards, so the team will buy at least 12 pairs. Under these conditions, which system of inequalities gives the possible number of soccer balls, x, and possible number of pairs of shin guards, y, the team can buy? A. 10.25x + 19.50y  550 x  12 B. 10.25x + 19.50y  550 x  12 C. 19.50x + 10.25y  550 y  12 D. 19.50x + 10.25y  550 y  12
Answer: D
1713. x2 - 64 = 0
81
How many distinct real solutions does the given equation have? A. Zero B. Exactly one C. Exactly two D. Infinitely many
Answer: C

1714. In triangle LMN, the measure of angle L is 90°, MN = 105, and LM = 2. What is the value of tan M?
A. 105
2
B. 11,021
2
C. 11,021
105
D. 2
105
Answer: B

1716. An online store is offering two different discounts on its sweaters: a bulk discount for large orders and a coupon discount. For orders of n sweaters, where 10 < n < 50, a bulk discount of n% off the original price of $41 is applied to the price of each sweater. If a coupon is applied to the order, a discount of an additional $4 is applied to the price of each sweater, after the bulk discount is applied. For a certain order with both the bulk discount and the coupon discount applied, the total price after the discounts for the sweaters purchased was $741. How many sweaters were purchased in this order? A. 18 B. 20 C. 30 D. 44
Answer: C
1717. f(x) = (x - 1)2 + 6
What is the minimum value of the given function?
A. 1 B. 5 C. 6 D. 7
Answer: C

1718.

The circle shown has center Q, and points B, C, and D lie on the circle. Line m is tangent to the circle at point C, and line m is parallel to line segment BD (not shown). Line DQ (not shown) intersects line m at point A, and line BQ (not shown) intersects line m at point P . If the length of line segment AQ (not shown) is 90 and the length of line segment AC is 72, what is the perimeter of triangle CP Q?
Answer: 216

1719. The concentration of calcium, in milligrams per liter (mg/L), is found for three samples of water: bottled, tap, and mineral. The concentration of calcium in the sample of bottled water is 48% of the concentration of calcium in the sample of tap water and 24% of the concentration of calcium in the sample of mineral water. If the concentration of calcium in the sample of tap water is 36 mg/L, what is the concentration of calcium, in mg/L, in the sample of mineral water?
Answer: 72
1720. x = w-23y+z
46wy
The given equation relates the variables w, x, y, and z, where the values of w, x, and z are distinct and positive. Which expression is equivalent to y?
A. -2x(w+z)
w
B. - 12 x(w+z)
w
C. w+z
23(2wx)
D. w+z
23(1+2wx)
Answer: D

1850. A furniture company is selling all tables with a 20% discount off their original price for the month of September. What is the discount, in dollars, on a table with an original price of $160? A. 140 B. 120 C. 64 D. 32
Answer: D

1853. An airplane begins its descent from a cruising altitude of 33,000 feet and descends at a constant rate of 1,800 feet per minute. Which of the following
statements best describes how the plane's distance from its cruising altitude changes over time? A. The plane's distance from its cruising altitude is increasing linearly over time. B. The plane's distance from its cruising altitude is decreasing linearly over time. C. The plane's distance from its cruising altitude is increasing exponentially over time. D. The plane's distance from its cruising altitude is decreasing exponentially over time.
Answer: A

1861.

y

13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

4

2

O

1

x

2

4

6

The graph of y = f(x) is shown. Which equation could define f? A. f(x) = ( 1 )x - 4
2
B. f(x) = ( 1 )x + 4
2
C. f(x) = 2x - 4 D. f(x) = 2x

Answer: B

1995. Triangle ABC is similar to triangle DEF , where angle A corresponds to angle D, and angles C and F are right angles. If cos B = 413 , what is the value of cos E?
A. 143 B. 144 C. 4243 D. 4344
Answer: A

1997. The height of a right circular cylinder is 59 inches, and the circumference of its base is 590 inches. Which expression represents the total surface area, in
square inches, of the cylinder?
A. (59)(590) B. ( 295 )2(59)

C. (59)(590) + ( 295 )2

D. (59)(590) + 2( 295 )2

Answer: D

2001. Which expression is equivalent to 9x3 + 72x2y + xy2 + 8y3? A. (9x2 + 8y)(x + y2) B. (9x2 + y2)(x + 8y) C. (9x3 + y2)(x2 + 8y3) D. (9x3 + y3)(x + 8y)
Answer: B

2003. A student needs at least 80 signatures from classmates to run for class secretary. The student collects 35 signatures on Monday and collects enough additional signatures on Tuesday to run for class secretary. Which inequality represents the number of additional signatures, s, that the student collects on Tuesday? A. s + 35  80 B. s + 35  80 C. s - 35  80 D. s - 35  80
Answer: B

2008. For the linear function g, g(6) = 10 and g(x + 1) - g(x) = 4. Which equation defines g? A. g(x) = 6x + 10 B. g(x) = 6x + 4 C. g(x) = 4x - 14 D. g(x) = 4x - 24
Answer: C

2152. A number f is 180% greater than a positive number g. A number h is 55% less than the number f. The number h is how many times the number g?

A. 0.81 B. 0.99 C. 1.26 D. 1.54
Answer: C

2287. An object's average acceleration, in meters per second squared, is the change in the object's speed, in meters per second, divided by the time during which
the change occurred, in seconds. A certain object's speed changes by 48 meters per second in 5 seconds. What is this object's average acceleration, in meters per
second squared, during this time period?
A. 0.1 B. 9.6 C. 43 D. 53
Answer: B
2288. Which expression is equivalent to 6x2 + 5x? A. x(6x + 5) B. 5x(6x + 1) C. 6x(x + 5) D. x2(6x + 5)
Answer: A

2293. A square has a side length of 56 inches. What is the area, in square inches, of the square? A. 56 B. 112 C. 224 D. 3,136
Answer: D

2295. y
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
x O 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
The graph of the function f is shown, where y = f(x). What is the value of f(3)?
A. 0
B. 3
C. 6
D. 9
Answer: D

2304. f(x) = (x - 11)2 + 12
What is the minimum value of the given function?
A. 1 B. 11 C. 12 D. 23
Answer: C

2305. Line p is defined by the equation y = 7 x - 49 and line r is defined by the equation ax + by = 1, where a and b are constants. In the xy-plane, line r is

5

5

perpendicular to line p and passes through the point (12, 7). What is the value of b?

A. - 7
11

B. - 5
11

C. 5
109

D. 7
109

Answer: D

2434. If 9x + 4 = 67, what is the value of 90x + 40? A. 7 B. 70 C. 130 D. 670
Answer: D

2436. A length of 450 meters is equal to how many decimeters? (1 meter = 10 decimeters)
Answer: 4500

2438. The relationship between the variables x and y is defined by an exponential equation. When x = 0, the value of y is 40, and for every increase in the value of x by 1, the corresponding value of y increases by 50% of its previous value. Which equation represents this relationship? A. y = 40(1.50)x B. y = 40(1.05)x C. y = 50(1.40)x D. y = 50(1.04)x
Answer: A

2441. x + 6y = 28 6y = 14
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x?
Answer: 14

2443. During hibernation, American black bears do not eat or replenish calories. A certain black bear weighed 293 pounds when entering hibernation and lost weight at a mean rate of 0.9 pounds per day. At this rate, how many days after entering hibernation would the black bear weigh 230 pounds? A. 57 B. 63 C. 70 D. 207
Answer: C

2451. Line h is defined by

1x+
2

1 y - 54
9

=

0. Line j is perpendicular to line h in the xy-plane. What is the slope of line j?

A. - 9
2

B. - 2
9

C. 9
2

D. 2
9

Answer: D

2454. y = 9( a )x+c - b
7
How many times does the graph of the given equation in the xy-plane cross the x-axis, where a, b, and c are positive constants such that a > 7 and b > c?
A. Zero B. One C. Two D. Three
Answer: B

2455. A certain town has an area of 4.29 square miles. What is the area, in square yards, of this town? (1 mile = 1,760 yards) A. 410 B. 7,550 C. 722,051 D. 13,288,704
Answer: D

2581. y = 9x + 19 One of the two equations in a system of linear equations is given. The system has infinitely many solutions. If the second equation in this system is y = mx + b, where m and b are constants, what is the value of b?
Answer: 19

2582. If 5x + 2 = 32, what is the value of 50x + 20? A. 6 B. 60 C. 70 D. 320
Answer: D

2584. A jar has 430 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are blue. How many marbles in the jar are blue? A. 86 B. 172 C. 215 D. 410
Answer: A
2598. |3x-30|+3 = 5
6
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 1 B. 19 C. 20 D. 30
Answer: C

2600. The width of a rectangle is 16 inches less than 2 times its length, in inches. The area of the rectangle is 130 square inches. What is the width, in inches, of the
rectangle?
A. 5 B. 10 C. 13 D. 18
Answer: B

2602. An exponential model for the number of squirrels in a certain area estimates that there were 200 squirrels in the area in the year 2003, and that at the end of each 4-year period for the next 20 years, the number of squirrels in the area was 120% more than the number at the end of the previous 4-year period. Which of the following equations represents this model, where N is the estimated number of squirrels in this area t years after 2003, and 0  t  20? A. N = 200(2.20)4t B. N = 200(1.20)4t
t
C. N = 200(1.20) 4
t
D. N = 200(2.20) 4
Answer: D

2728. If 5x + 7 = 52, what is the value of 50x + 70? A. 9 B. 90 C. 120 D. 520
Answer: D

2734. A sample was selected at random from a population. Based on the sample, it is estimated that the mean value of a variable for this population is 178, with an associated margin of error of 1.5. Based on the estimate and associated margin of error, which of the following best describes the range of plausible values for the
population mean?
A. Any value between 175 and 178 B. Any value between 176.5 and 179.5 C. Any value less than 176.5 D. Any value greater than 179.5
Answer: B

2736. During hibernation, American black bears do not eat or replenish calories. A certain black bear weighed 258 pounds when entering hibernation and lost weight at a mean rate of 0.8 pounds per day. At this rate, how many days after entering hibernation would the black bear weigh 210 pounds? A. 39 B. 48 C. 60 D. 168
Answer: C

2742. The table gives the perimeters of similar triangles T UV and XY Z, where T U corresponds to XY . The length of T U is 18.

Triangle T UV Triangle XY Z

Perimeter
43 387

What is the length of XY ? A. 2 B. 18 C. 61 D. 162
Answer: D
2743. What is 5% of 220? A. 11 B. 44 C. 110 D. 215
Answer: A
2749. A certain town has an area of 3.72 square miles. What is the area, in square yards, of this town? (1 mile = 1,760 yards) A. 473 B. 6,547 C. 832,688 D. 11,523,072
Answer: D
2877. A jar has 470 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are blue. How many marbles in the jar are blue? A. 94 B. 188 C. 235 D. 450
Answer: A
2882. 5x + 9y = 20 rx + 18y = 40
In the given system of equations, r is a constant. The system has infinitely many solutions. What is the value of r? A. 2 B. 5 C. 9 D. 10
Answer: D
2883. If 9x - 10 = 8, what is the value of 9x + 10? A. -2 B. 2 C. 12 D. 28
Answer: D
2888. Which expression is equivalent to 5xy + 30x2y + 35xy2? A. 5xy(1 + 30x + 35y) B. 5xy(1 + 6x + 7y) C. 5xy(30x + 35y) D. 5xy(6x + 7y)
Answer: B
2891. Square A has side lengths that are 82 times the side lengths of square B. The area of square A is k times the area of square B. What is the value of k? A. 41 B. 82 C. 164 D. 6,724
Answer: D
3024. Which expression is equivalent to 42x3 + 7x? A. 7x(6 + 7x) B. 7x(6x2 + 1) C. 7x2(6 + 7x) D. 7x2(6x + 1)
Answer: B
3028. If 6x - 8 = 4, what is the value of 6x + 8? A. -4 B. 2 C. 10 D. 20
Answer: D
3031.

In the right triangle shown, a, b, and c are positive constants. For an acute angle D, sin D =

b . What is the measure of angle D, in degrees?
c

Answer: 32

3036. x2 + y2 = 1,088 y - 4x = 0
A solution to the given system of equations is (x, y), where x < 0. What is the value of y? A. -256 B. -32 C. -8 D. -4
Answer: B

3038. The function j is defined by j(x) = 10x+5 , and the function k is defined by k(x) = j(x)p , where p is a positive constant. What is the value of k(9)?

3p

x+1

A. 19
6

B. 10
3

C. 95
13

D. 85
3

Answer: A

3040. 3x + 2y = 10
How many solutions does the given system of equations have? A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero Answer: C

18x + 12y = 60

3171. If 9x + 2 = 56, what is the value of 90x + 20? A. 560 B. 110 C. 60 D. 6
Answer: A

3176. y  x + 6 y  -3x - 6
Which point (x, y) is a solution to the given system of inequalities in the xy-plane? A. (-4, 5) B. (-4, 1) C. (-2, 5) D. (-2, 1)
Answer: A
3185. |4x-40|+4 = 5
8
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 1 B. 19 C. 20 D. 40
Answer: C

3189.

The shaded region shown represents the solutions to which inequality?
A. y > 4x - 25 B. y < 4x - 25 C. y > 20x - 25 D. y < 20x - 25
Answer: C 3190.
The graph of the equation y = 3x + k is shown, where k is a constant. What is the value of k? A. -9 B. -8 C. 8 D. 9
Answer: A
3318. If 8x + 2 = 74, what is the value of 80x + 20? A. 9 B. 90 C. 100 D. 740
Answer: D

3334. Which expression is a factor of 81p21 - 121p19? A. 9p + 11 B. 81p2 + 121 C. 11p - 9 D. -40p44
Answer: A

3463. A carnival charges $3 for each ride ticket and $4 for each game ticket. A family purchased ride tickets and game tickets worth a total of $35. Which equation represents this situation, where x is the number of ride tickets and y is the number of game tickets that this family purchased? A. 3(x + y) = 35 B. 3x + 4y = 35 C. 4(x + y) = 35 D. 4x + 3y = 35
Answer: B

3466. A jar has 370 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are blue. How many marbles in the jar are blue? A. 74 B. 148 C. 185 D. 350
Answer: A

3470. v(t) = 9t + 70 The function v gives the volume of water, in liters, in a tank being filled by a hose t minutes after the hose was turned on. Which of the following is the best interpretation of 70 in this context? A. The volume of water in the tank increases at a rate of 70 liters per minute. B. The tank holds a maximum of 70 liters. C. It takes 70 hours to fill the tank completely. D. There were 70 liters of water in the tank when the hose was turned on.
Answer: D

3473. 13, 17, 23, 6, 4, 8, 17, 15, 16 The list gives the low temperatures, in degrees Fahrenheit, for 9 days in December in a certain city. According to the list, what is the median low temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit, for these 9 days?
Answer: 15

3476. The graph of a polynomial function y = f(x) in the xy-plane passes through the point (9, 8). What is the value of f(9)? A. 8 B. 9 C. 17 D. 72
Answer: A
3480. 4 |6x-36|+6 = 9
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 1 B. 11 C. 12 D. 36
Answer: C

3482. A certain town has an area of 4.12 square miles. What is the area, in square yards, of this town? (1 mile = 1,760 yards) A. 427 B. 7,251 C. 751,845 D. 12,762,112
Answer: D

3483. The function h is defined by h(x) = ax + b, where a and b are positive constants. The graph of y = h(x) in the xy-plane passes through the points (0, 11) and (2, 19). What is the value of ab? A. 19 B. 30 C. 33 D. 38
Answer: B

3610. A factory produces identical objects at a constant rate of 49 objects per minute. At what rate, in objects per hour, does the factory produce the objects?
Answer: 2940

3612. If 8x + 4 = 52, what is the value of 80x + 40? A. 520 B. 120 C. 60 D. 6
Answer: A

3618. 17x + 16y = c 16x - 17y = c
In the given system of equations, c is a positive constant. Which of the following could be the point where the graphs of the equations in this system intersect in the
xy-plane?
A. (10, - 10 )
33
B. (10, 330) C. (c, c )
33
D. (c, 0)
Answer: A

3619. Sonja purchased a laptop in September 2019 when the laptop had a value of $1,000. Each month for the next 50 months, the value of the laptop decreased by 2% of the previous month's value. Which equation represents this situation, where v is the value of the laptop, in dollars, m is the number of months since Sonja purchased the laptop, and m  50? A. v = 2,019(0.98)m B. v = 2,019(2)m C. v = 1,000(0.98)m D. v = 1,000(2)m
Answer: C

3622. 4x + 5 = rx + 6 In the given equation, r is a constant. The equation has no solution. What is the value of r? A. 4 B. 6 C. 9 D. 30
Answer: A

3627. 2x + 5y = 9
How many solutions does the given system of equations have? A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero Answer: C

6x + 15y = 27

3757. If 4x + 3 = 35, what is the value of 40x + 30? A. 350 B. 80 C. 70 D. 8
Answer: A

3761.

In the figure, lines r and s are parallel. If x = 7k + 16 and y = 9k - 12, what is the value of k? A. 166 B. 114 C. 66 D. 14
Answer: D

3763. During a physics experiment, the speed of an object was determined to be 177.0 inches per second. What is this speed in feet per second? (12 inches = 1 foot)
Answer: 14.75

3771. f(x) = 3x + 7 g(x) = 4x - 3 h(x) = 5x + 6
The functions f, g, and h are defined as shown. If f(x)  g(x) - h(x) = ax2 + bx + c, where a, b, and c are constants, what is the value of b? A. -5 B. 14 C. 24 D. 32
Answer: B

3775. The length of a rectangle's diagonal is 106, and the length of one of the rectangle's sides is 9. What is the perimeter of the rectangle? A. 106 B. 45 C. 28 D. 14
Answer: C

3904. The equation d = 17w + 100 gives the total amount of money d, in dollars, that James plans to save w weeks after he starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars, he plans to save in 10 weeks? A. 220 B. 270 C. 320 D. 370
Answer: B

3910. The table shows values of x and their corresponding values of y for three points on line j in the xy-plane. xy 0 -10 1 -4 22
Line k also lies in the xy-plane and is defined by the equation y = 4x. At what point (x, y) do lines j and k intersect? A. (5, 20) B. (5, -44) C. (6, 24) D. (6, 26)
Answer: A

4200. Which expression is equivalent to 20x3 + 4x? A. 4x(5 + 4x) B. 4x(5x2 + 1) C. 4x2(5 + 4x) D. 4x2(5x + 1)
Answer: B

4205. The expression 6(9x + 16)(x - 5) - (4x + 17) can be written in the form ax2 + bx + c, where a, b, and c are constants. What is the value of b?
Answer: -178

4216. 5x + 4y = 8
How many solutions does the given system of equations have? A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero Answer: C

20x + 16y = 32

4345. The surface of Lake Erie is 9,910 square miles. On a certain day, ice covers 41% of the lake's surface. Approximately how many square miles of the surface of
Lake Erie are covered by ice on that day?
A. 9,869 B. 5,847 C. 4,063 D. 406
Answer: C

4346. If 5x + 6 = 46, what is the value of 50x + 60? A. 460 B. 110 C. 80 D. 8
Answer: A

4351. The measure of angle F

is

 15

radians. If the measure of angle F

is 6n degrees, where n is a constant, what is the value of n?

A. 2

B. 6

C. 12

D. 15

Answer: A

4360. 5x2 + 13x - 25 = 0
What is one of the solutions to the given equation? A. -13+669
2
B. -13+669
2(5)
C. -13+669
2(13)
D. -13+669
2(25)
Answer: B

4493. A jar has 290 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are blue. How many marbles in the jar are blue? A. 58 B. 116 C. 145 D. 270
Answer: A

4494. The measures of the interior angles of triangle ABC are 32°, 64°, and x°. What is the value of x? A. 32 B. 84 C. 96 D. 180
Answer: B

4497. If 6x - 9 = 3, what is the value of 6x + 9? A. -6 B. 2 C. 11 D. 21
Answer: D

4498. Marko purchased a camera in September 2019 when the camera had a value of $4,000. Each month for the next 50 months, the value of the camera decreased by 2% of the previous month's value. Which equation represents this situation, where v is the value of the camera, in dollars, m is the number of months since Marko purchased the camera, and m  50? A. v = 2,019(0.98)m B. v = 2,019(2)m C. v = 4,000(0.98)m D. v = 4,000(2)m
Answer: C

4505. Which equation has no solution?
A. 6x + 2 = 2(3x + 1) B. 6x + 20 = 2(3x + 4) C. 6x + 1 = 3x + 1 D. 6x + 3 = -6x - 3
Answer: B

4639. s = 50 + 4t The equation gives the speed s, in miles per hour, of a certain car t seconds after it began to accelerate. What is the speed, in miles per hour, of the car 2 seconds
after it began to accelerate?
A. 50 B. 52 C. 54 D. 58
Answer: D

4640. A jar has 790 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are orange. How many marbles in the jar are orange? A. 158 B. 316 C. 395 D. 770
Answer: A

4645. During hibernation, American black bears do not eat or replenish calories. A certain black bear weighed 286 pounds when entering hibernation and lost weight at a mean rate of 0.8 pounds per day. At this rate, how many days after entering hibernation would the black bear weigh 230 pounds? A. 45 B. 56 C. 70 D. 184
Answer: C

4648. If 9(3x + 4) = 7(3x + 4) + 74, what is the value of 3x + 4? A. 74 B. 37 C. 33 D. 11
Answer: B

4651. A survey of the daily commuting times, in minutes, of seven different Chicago-based employees at a certain company yielded a data set consisting of the
values 31, 14, 43, 32, 52, 23, and 44. A survey of the daily commuting times, in minutes, of seven different San Francisco-based employees at the same company yielded a data set consisting of the values 46, 31, 17, 33, 47, x, and 37. If the means of the two data sets are equal, what is the value of x?
Answer: 28

4786. x2 - 4 = 32
Which value is a solution to the given equation?
A. -32 B. -28 C. -4 D. 6
Answer: D

4787. A jar has 190 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are blue. How many marbles in the jar are blue? A. 38 B. 76 C. 95 D. 170
Answer: A

4791. x + 7y = 28 7y = 11
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x?
Answer: 17

4794. Zuri has a goal to run at least 17 miles per week while training for a race. This week, she has run 8 miles. If x represents the additional number of miles Zuri
needs to run this week to meet her goal, which inequality represents this situation?
A. 8 - x  17 B. 8 + x  17 C. 8 - x  17 D. 8 + x  17
Answer: D

4795. If 7(2x + 6) = 5(2x + 6) + 76, what is the value of 2x + 6? A. 76 B. 38 C. 32 D. 16
Answer: B

4807. A certain town has an area of 4.17 square miles. What is the area, in square yards, of this town? (1 mile = 1,760 yards) A. 422 B. 7,339 C. 742,830 D. 12,916,992
Answer: D

4949. 4x2 - 12x - 72 = 0
What is the product of the solutions to the given equation?
A. -72 B. -18 C. 18 D. 72
Answer: B

4950. 5x + 3y = 7
How many solutions does the given system of equations have? A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero Answer: C

30x + 18y = 42

4951. Which quadratic equation has no real solutions?
A. 28r2 = 27 B. 28r2 = -27r + 27 C. -28r2 = -27r D. -28r2 = -27r + 27
Answer: D

4952. The function h is defined by h(x) = ax + b, where a and b are positive constants. The graph of y = h(x) in the xy-plane passes through the points (0, 11) and (2, 14). What is the value of ab?

A. 14 B. 20 C. 22 D. 28
Answer: B

5081. A jar has 810 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are orange. How many marbles in the jar are orange? A. 162 B. 324 C. 405 D. 790
Answer: A

5086. x + 2y = 27 2y = 11
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x?
Answer: 16

5096. Triangle QRS is similar to triangle F GH

such that Q, R, and S correspond to F , G and H, respectively. Each side of triangle F GH

has

1 3

the length of its

corresponding side in triangle QRS. In triangle F GH, the measure of angle F is 35°, the measure of angle G is 6°, and F G = a. In triangle QRS, the measure of

angle Q is b° and QR = 60. What is the value of a + b?

Answer: 55

5097. y = 2x2 - 24x + 54
The given equation represents a parabola in the xy-plane. Which of the following equations that represent the same parabola displays the x-intercepts as constants or coefficients?
A. y = 2(x2 - 12x) + 54 B. y = 2x(x - 12) + 54 C. y = 2(x - 6)2 - 18 D. y = 2(x - 9)(x - 3)
Answer: D

5100.

Value
30 34 38 42 46

Data set A frequency
1 3 4 6 8

Data set B frequency
8 6 4 3 1

Data set A and data set B each consist of 22 values. The table shows the frequencies of the values for each data set. Which of the following statements best
compares the means of the two data sets?

A. The mean of data set A is less than the mean of data set B.

B. The mean of data set A is greater than the mean of data set B.

C. The mean of data set A is equal to the mean of data set B.

D. There is not enough information to compare the means of the data sets.

Answer: B

5228. A jar has 590 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are orange. How many marbles in the jar are orange? A. 118 B. 236 C. 295 D. 570
Answer: A

5232. The function g is defined by g(x) = 16x + 25. For what value of x does g(x) = 29?
Answer: 1/4

5234. If 6x - 10 = 8, what is the value of 6x + 10? A. -2 B. 3 C. 13 D. 28
Answer: D

5241.

The three points shown define a circle. The circumference of this circle is k, where k is a constant. What is the value of k?
Answer: 8

5244. Line p in the xy-plane contains the points (34, 0) and (34, 34). Which equation defines line p? A. x = 0 B. x = 34 C. y = 0 D. y = 34
Answer: B
5374. Which expression is equivalent to 16(x2 - 6)? A. 16x2 + 10 B. 16x2 - 6 C. 16x2 - 22 D. 16x2 - 96
Answer: D

5375. A jar has 690 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are orange. How many marbles in the jar are orange? A. 138 B. 276 C. 345 D. 670
Answer: A
5381. 33(k+2)
3(k+2)
The given expression is equivalent to c, where c is a constant and k > -2. What is the value of c?
Answer: 11

5383. If 7(2x + 4) = 5(2x + 4) + 56, what is the value of 2x + 4? A. 56 B. 28 C. 24 D. 12
Answer: B

5390. 2x + 4y = 8
How many solutions does the given system of equations have? A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero Answer: C

6x + 12y = 24

5521. If 7x + 5 = 47, what is the value of 70x + 50? A. 6 B. 60 C. 120 D. 470
Answer: D

5525. 3x = 6 + 7y -3x = 2 + 7y
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of 6x?
Answer: 4

5532. (x - 15)(x - 4) = 0
Which value is a solution to the given equation?
A. 0 B. 15 C. 19 D. 60
Answer: B

5538. For the linear function f, f(4) = 17 and f(8) = 1. Which equation defines f?

A.

f(x)

=

-

1 4

x

+

18

B. f(x) =

1 4

x

-

1

C. f(x) = -4x + 21

D. f(x) = -4x + 33

Answer: D

5541.

1 x2 - 7x + k
3

=

5

In the given equation, k is a constant. A solution to the equation is 21 - 373 . What is the value of k?

2

2

A. 13

B. 5

C. -13

D. -18

Answer: C

5669. If 7x + 6 = 62, what is the value of 70x + 60? A. 620 B. 130 C. 80 D. 8
Answer: A

5673. In F GH, the measures of F and G are each 41°. What is the measure of H? A. 139° B. 131° C. 98° D. 82°
Answer: C

5674. The scatterplot shows the relationship between two variables, x and y.

Which of the following equations is the most appropriate linear model for the data shown?
A. y = -0.80x B. y = 89.87x C. y = 0.80 + 89.87x D. y = 89.87 + 0.80x
Answer: D
5678. p(x) = 158 - 4x The function p shown gives the number of blank sheets of paper, p(x), remaining in a printer x days after the printer had been loaded with paper. Which statement is the best interpretation of p(8) = 126? A. The number of blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer decreased by a total of 8 sheets after 126 days. B. There were 8 blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer 126 days after the printer had been loaded with paper. C. There were 126 blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer 8 days after the printer had been loaded with paper. D. The number of blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer decreased by a total of 126 sheets after 8 days.
Answer: C
5683. The equation y = -4.9(x - 8.7)2 + 11,900 gives the estimated height above ground, y, in meters, of a plane, where x is the number of seconds since it
started a parabolic maneuver. If this equation is graphed in the xy-plane, which of the following is the best interpretation of the vertex of the graph?
A. The plane reached an estimated maximum height of 8.7 meters 11,900 seconds after it started the parabolic maneuver. B. The plane reached an estimated maximum height of 4.9 meters 11,900 seconds after it started the parabolic maneuver. C. The plane reached an estimated maximum height of 11,900 meters 8.7 seconds after it started the parabolic maneuver. D. The plane reached an estimated maximum height of 11,900 meters 4.9 seconds after it started the parabolic maneuver.
Answer: C
5688. The function f is defined by f(x) = 57(0.18)x. For any positive integer n, the value of f(n) is p% less than the value of f(n - 1). What is the value of p? A. 18 B. 43 C. 57 D. 82
Answer: D
5816. The function f(x) = 44.10 - 0.22x gives a person's estimated grip strength, in kilograms, x years after the person's grip strength was first measured. Based on the function, what is this person's estimated grip strength, in kilograms, 31.50 years after the person's grip strength was first measured? A. 12.38 B. 37.17 C. 44.10 D. 51.03
Answer: B
5818. The function g is defined by g(x) = x + 800. What is the value of g(x) when x = 36? A. 6 B. 800 C. 806 D. 836
Answer: C
5820. If 16x = 11x + 15, what is the value of 6x?
Answer: 18
5821.

In rectangle P QRS, the length of line segment QS is 3,560 and the length of side P S is 8 more than the length of side RS. What is the length of side QR?
Answer: 46

5827. Data set J: 14, 14, 15, 15, 16, 17, 17, 18, 18 Data set K: 14, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 18
The lists give the values in data sets J and K. Which of the following statistics is greater for data set J than it is for data set K? A. Mean B. Median C. Range D. Standard deviation
Answer: D

5829. If k(x+4) + x+4 - 1 = 4, where k is a positive constant, what is the value of (5k + 4)(x + 4)?

12

15

A. 180

B. 300

C. 720

D. 900

Answer: B

5831.
xy -12 150 -6 102
66 12 -42
The table shows four values of x and their corresponding values of y. There is a linear relationship between x and y. Which of the following equations represents this
relationship?
A. 48x + 6y = 54 B. 48x + 6y = 324 C. 6x + 48y = 54 D. 6x + 48y = 324
Answer: B

5962. An object's average acceleration, in meters per second squared, is the change in the object's speed, in meters per second, divided by the time during which
the change occurred, in seconds. A certain object's speed changes by 10 meters per second in 8 seconds. What is this object's average acceleration, in meters per
second squared, during this time period?
A. 0.8 B. 1.25 C. 2 D. 18
Answer: B

5963. Which expression is equivalent to 7x2 + 3x? A. x(7x + 3) B. 3x(7x + 1) C. 7x(x + 3) D. x2(7x + 3)
Answer: A

5964. Two sets of blocks include both wood-finish and painted blocks. The table summarizes the types of blocks in each set.

Set
A B Total

Wood-finish blocks Painted blocks

4

8

14

5

18

13

Total
12 19 31

If one of these blocks is selected at random, what is the probability of selecting a wood-finish block that is in set A? (Express your answer as a decimal or fraction, not as a percent.)

Answer: 0.129

5969. A square has a side length of 54 inches. What is the area, in square inches, of the square? A. 2,916 B. 216 C. 108 D. 54
Answer: A

6113. y
10

8

6

4

2

x

O

2 4 6 8 10 12

2

4

6

The graph shows three points. What is the area, in square units, of the triangle defined by the three points?
A. 29 B. 58 C. 108 D. 116

Answer: A

6116. A square has a side length of 44 inches. What is the area, in square inches, of the square? A. 1,936 B. 176 C. 88 D. 44
Answer: A

6123. If k(x+3) + x+3 - 1 = 3, where k is a positive constant, what is the value of (7k + 5)(x + 3)?

15

21

A. 210

B. 420

C. 945

D. 1,260

Answer: B

Number of pumpkins sold each day

Section: Section 2, Module 2: Math, Difficulty: easy (277 questions)
104. The owner of a pumpkin patch recorded the number of pumpkins sold each day during a four-day period in the fall. If the number of pumpkins sold increased each day, which of the following line graphs could represent the number of pumpkins sold during this four-day period? A.
30
20
10
0 Day D 1 ay D 2 ay D 3 ay 4

Number of pumpkins sold each day

B.
30 20 10
0 Day D 1 ay D 2 ay D 3 ay 4

Number of pumpkins sold each day

C.
30 20 10
0 Day D 1 ay D 2 ay D 3 ay 4

D.

Number of pumpkins sold each day

30 20 10
0 Day D 1 ay D 2 ay D 3 ay 4
Answer: D 105.

The graph shows the estimated balance of a bank account, in dollars, x years after an initial deposit is made. According to the graph, which of the following is closest to the number of years it took for the estimated balance to increase from the initial deposit to 125 dollars? A. 0 B. 8 C. 100 D. 125
Answer: B
106. Bella has read 130 pages of a 180-page book. On average, she reads 1 page every minute. At this rate, how much time, in minutes, will she spend reading the
remaining pages of the book? Answer: 50
107. For a psychology class, a student's research paper needs to have no more than 5,000 words. If a student has already written 3,029 words, what is the maximum
number of additional words the student can write for the research paper?
A. 8,029 B. 5,000 C. 3,029 D. 1,971
Answer: D
108.
In the triangle shown, P Q = QR. What is the value of x? A. 159 B. 69 C. 42 D. 21
Answer: D
109. What value of p is the solution to the equation p - 24 = 1?
A. 124
B. 23 C. 24 D. 25
Answer: D
110. The equation d = 22w + 100 gives the total amount of money d, in dollars, that James plans to save w weeks after he starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars, he plans to save in 10 weeks? A. 270 B. 320 C. 370 D. 420
Answer: B
111. In the xy-plane, the graph of the equation y = 6x is translated 3 units down. What is an equation of the resulting graph? A. y = 6x + 3 B. y = 6x - 3 C. y = 6(x+3) D. y = 6(x-3)
Answer: B
112. x2 - 3 = 22
Which value is a solution to the given equation?
A. -22 B. -19 C. -3 D. 5
Answer: D
113. x + y = 105 x + y + y = 195
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of y?
Answer: 90
114.

What is an equation of the graph shown?
A. y = 4-x + 3 B. y = 4x + 3 C. y = 4-x + 2 D. y = 4x + 2
Answer: D

115. Data set A: 1, 1, 1, 4, 4, 7, 10, 10, 13, 13, 13 Data set B: 1, 4, 4, 7, 7, 7, 7, 7, 10, 10, 13
Data set A and data set B each have 11 values. Which of the following statements best compares the median of data set A and the median of data set B?
A. The median of data set A is greater than the median of data set B. B. The median of data set A is less than the median of data set B. C. The medians of data sets A and B are equal. D. There is not enough information to compare the medians.
Answer: C

116. In triangle RST , RS = ST and the length of RT is 76 units. If tan R = 398 , what is the area, in square units, of triangle RST ? A. 722 B. 684 C. 342 D. 171
Answer: C

117. The function f is defined by f(x) =

1 3x

.

What

is

the

value

of

f(x)

when

x

=

8?

Answer: 1/24

118. The function f

is defined by f(x)

=

2x -

1 7

.

What

is

the

y-intercept

of

the

graph

of

y

=

f(x) in the xy-plane?

A.

(0,

-

1 7

)

B. (0, -2)

C. (0, 2)

D. (0, 7)

Answer: A

119. A line in the xy-plane has a slope of 0 and passes through the point (7, 3). Which equation represents this line? A. y = 3 B. y = 7 C. y = 3x D. y = 7x
Answer: A
120. The expression 10x3 + 50 is equivalent to k(x3 + 5), where k is a constant. What is the value of k?
Answer: 10

121. Sonja purchased a laptop in September 2018 when the laptop had a value of $1,000. Each month for the next 50 months, the value of the laptop decreased by 3% of the previous month's value. Which equation represents this situation, where v is the value of the laptop, in dollars, m is the number of months since Sonja purchased the laptop, and m  50? A. v = 2,018(0.97)m B. v = 2,018(3)m C. v = 1,000(0.97)m D. v = 1,000(3)m
Answer: C

122. p(x) = 145 - 3x The function p shown gives the number of blank sheets of paper, p(x), remaining in a printer x days after the printer had been loaded with paper. Which statement is the best interpretation of p(5) = 130? A. The number of blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer decreased by a total of 5 sheets after 130 days. B. There were 5 blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer 130 days after the printer had been loaded with paper. C. There were 130 blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer 5 days after the printer had been loaded with paper. D. The number of blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer decreased by a total of 130 sheets after 5 days.
Answer: C

123.

The function f is defined by f(x) = ax+b + k, where a, b, c, and k are constants. The graph of y = f(x) is shown. For how many values of x does f(x) = 0?
x+c
A. Three B. Two C. One D. Zero Answer: C 124.
Triangle XY Z shown is a right triangle. Which of the following has the same value as sin X? A. tan X B. tan Y C. cos X D. cos Y
Answer: D
125. What is the radius of the circle in the xy-plane defined by (x + 4)2 + (y + 6)2 = 289?
Answer: 17
251. What is 50% of 480? A. 720 B. 480 C. 240 D. 48
Answer: C 253.

What is the y-intercept of the graph shown?
A. (0, - 1 )
9
B. (0, 9) C. (0, 0) D. (0, 1 )
9
Answer: B

255. 32x + 31y = c 31x - 32y = c
In the given system of equations, c is a positive constant. Which of the following could be the point where the graphs of the equations in this system intersect in the
xy-plane?
A. (c, 0) B. (c, c )
63
C. (10, 630) D. (10, - 10 )
63
Answer: D

256. During a 6-day period, a weather station recorded a total of 2.3 inches of rain and snow. During this period, the weather station recorded r inches of rain and s
inches of snow. Which equation represents this situation?
A. r + s = 2.3 B. r - s = 2.3 C. s - r = 2.3 D. rs = 2.3
Answer: A

257. y = 7x + 14 One of the two equations in a system of linear equations is given. The system has infinitely many solutions. If the second equation in this system is y = mx + b, where m and b are constants, what is the value of b?
Answer: 14

258. A rectangle has a length of 35 inches and a width of 1 inch. What is the area, in square inches, of the rectangle?
Answer: 35

259. A ball is thrown up into the air from an initial height of 9 feet. It reaches a maximum height of 13 feet 0.5 seconds after it is thrown. Which graph best models this situation, where x is the time, in seconds, after the ball was thrown and y is the height of the ball, in feet, above the ground?

A.

y

22

20

18

16

14

12

10

8

6

4

2

x

O

1

2

B.

y

22

20

18

16

14

12

10

8

6

4

2

x

O

1

2

C.

y

22

20

18

16

14

12

10

8

6

4

2

x

O

1

2

D.

y

22

20

18

16

14

12

10

8

6

4

2

x

O

1

2

Answer: C

260. s = 20 + 2t The equation gives the speed s, in miles per hour, of a certain car t seconds after it began to accelerate. What is the speed, in miles per hour, of the car 5 seconds
after it began to accelerate?
A. 20 B. 22 C. 25 D. 30
Answer: D

261. x2 - 7 = 29
Which value is a solution to the given equation?
A. -29 B. -22 C. -7 D. 6
Answer: D

262. Triangle ABC is similar to triangle DEF , where angle A corresponds to angle D, and angles C and F are right angles. If cos B =

1 , what is the value of
53

cos E?

A. 1
53

B. 154

C. 52
53

D. 5354

Answer: A

264. A sample was selected at random from a population. Based on the sample, it is estimated that the mean value of a variable for this population is 133, with an associated margin of error of 1.5. Based on the estimate and associated margin of error, which of the following best describes the range of plausible values for the
population mean?
A. Any value between 130 and 133 B. Any value between 131.5 and 134.5 C. Any value less than 131.5 D. Any value greater than 134.5
Answer: B

265. v(t) = 3t + 60 The function v gives the volume of water, in liters, in a tank being filled by a hose t minutes after the hose was turned on. Which of the following is the best interpretation of 60 in this context? A. The volume of water in the tank increases at a rate of 60 liters per minute. B. The tank holds a maximum of 60 liters. C. It takes 60 hours to fill the tank completely. D. There were 60 liters of water in the tank when the hose was turned on.
Answer: D

266. The expression 6(9x + 16)(x - 5) - (4x + 17) can be written in the form ax2 + bx + c, where a, b, and c are constants. What is the value of b?
Answer: -178

267. Which expression is equivalent to 4x3 + 48x2y + xy2 + 12y3? A. (4x2 + 12y)(x + y2) B. (4x2 + y2)(x + 12y) C. (4x3 + y2)(x2 + 12y3) D. (4x3 + y3)(x + 12y)
Answer: B

268.

In the figure shown, lines  and k are parallel and line t intersects both lines. If x > 112, which of the following must be true? A. y < 68 B. y > 68 C. x + y < 180 D. x + y > 180
Answer: A
269. 15, 19, 28, 9, 7, 14, 19, 17, 18 The list gives the low temperatures, in degrees Fahrenheit, for 9 days in December in a certain city. According to the list, what is the median low temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit, for these 9 days?

Answer: 17

270. Line t in the xy-plane has a slope of

1 3

and passes through the point (15, -6). Which equation defines line t?

A. y

=

-11x +

1 3

B. y = x - 11
3

C. y = x - 6
3

D. y = 15x - 6

Answer: B

271. In the xy-plane, which of the following does NOT contain any points that are part of the solution set to 7x - 4y > 28? A. The region where x < 0 and y > 0 B. The region where x < 0 and y < 0 C. The region where x > 0 and y > 0
D. The x-axis
Answer: A

272. How many solutions does the equation 5(x + 13) + 8x = 13(x + 5) have?
A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero
Answer: C

398. What is 50% of 420? A. 630 B. 420 C. 210 D. 42
Answer: C

400. A factory produces identical objects at a constant rate of 44 objects per minute. At what rate, in objects per hour, does the factory produce the objects?
Answer: 2640

402. x + y = 300 The given equation relates the total number of bur oak trees, x, and the total number of other oak trees, y, planted in a 12-acre forest preserve. If 270 bur oak trees
were planted in the forest preserve, how many other oak trees were planted in the forest preserve?
A. 270 B. 30 C. 25 D. 12
Answer: B

403. f(x) = 11x10 + 2x8 g(x) = -14x7 + 9x5
The polynomial p(x) is defined as the product of the given polynomials, f(x) and g(x). What is the coefficient of x15 in p(x)? A. 15 B. 71 C. 99 D. 127
Answer: B
407. Q = M
53
The given equation relates the quantities M and Q. Which equation correctly expresses M in terms of Q? A. M = Q
53
B. M = 53Q C. M = Q + 53 D. M = Q - 53
Answer: B

408. For a project, Kayla recorded the heights of 21 people in her neighborhood. The histogram summarizes the heights, in inches (in), of these 21 people in Kayla's neighborhood. The first bar represents people with a height of at least 51 in but less than 54 in. The second bar represents people with a height of at least 54 in but less than 57 in, and so on.

How many of these 21 people in Kayla's neighborhood had a height of at least 51 in but less than 57 in?
Answer: 8

409. Which measure, in radians, is equivalent to (47  180)°? A. 47 B.  + 47 C. - 47 D.  - 47
Answer: A

410. The measures of the interior angles of triangle ABC are 26°, 52°, and x°. What is the value of x? A. 26 B. 78 C. 102 D. 180
Answer: C

411. r + g < 36 For which of the following tables are all the values of r and their corresponding values of g solutions to the given inequality?
A.
rg 0 31 2 33 4 35
B.
rg 0 31 2 35 4 33
C.
rg 0 33 2 35 4 31
D.
rg 0 35 2 33 4 31
Answer: D
413. 54(k+4)
6(k+4)
The given expression is equivalent to c, where c is a constant and k > -4. What is the value of c?
Answer: 9

414. If 6x - 7 = 5, what is the value of 6x + 7? A. -2 B. 2 C. 9 D. 19
Answer: D
415. The graph of y = ( 1 )x + 1 in the xy-plane is shifted up 2 units. What is an equation of the resulting graph?
6
A. y = ( 61 )(x+2) + 1 B. y = ( 1 )(x-2) + 1
6
C. y = 2( 1 )x + 1
6
D. y = ( 1 )x + 3
6
Answer: D

416. Line q in the xy-plane passes through the points (0, 20) and (1, 34). Which equation defines line q?

A. 14x - y + 20 = 0

B. 14x - y +

1 20

=0

C. 14x - y -

1 20

=0

D. 14x - y - 20 = 0

Answer: A

418. 3x2 - 6x - 72 = 0
What is the product of the solutions to the given equation?
A. -72 B. -24 C. 24 D. 72
Answer: B

419. A circle in the xy-plane has its center at (2, 1) and has a radius of length 7. Which equation represents this circle? A. (x + 2)2 + (y + 1)2 = 7 B. (x - 2)2 + (y - 1)2 = 7 C. (x + 2)2 + (y + 1)2 = 49 D. (x - 2)2 + (y - 1)2 = 49
Answer: D

545. What is 50% of 840? A. 84 B. 420 C. 840 D. 1,260
Answer: B

548. For the linear function f, f(6) = 17 and f(9) = 8. Which equation defines f?

A. f(x) = -3x + 35

B. f(x) = -3x + 23

C. f(x) =

1x+5
3

D.

f(x)

=

-

1 3

x

+

19

Answer: A

549.

In the triangle shown, P Q = QR. What is the value of x? A. 162 B. 72 C. 36 D. 18
Answer: D
550. 2.7 + x = 2.8 What value of x is the solution to the given equation?
Answer: 0.1
551. The price to rent an event space is 1,200 dollars for the first 3 hours and 200 dollars for each additional hour. What is the total price, in dollars, to rent the event space for 10 hours? A. 5,000 B. 3,200 C. 2,600 D. 1,400
Answer: C
552. The scatterplot shows the relationship between two variables, x and y. A line of best fit is also shown.

Which of the following equations best represents the line of best fit shown?
A. y = -x - 3.6 B. y = -x + 3.6 C. y = x - 3.6 D. y = x + 3.6
Answer: D

553. The equation d = 35w + 100 gives the total amount of money d, in dollars, that Janna plans to save w weeks after she starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars, she plans to save in 10 weeks? A. 400 B. 450 C. 500 D. 550
Answer: B
561. If x = 2n 5xn + 50, where n is a positive integer constant, what is the value of xn?
Answer: 10

563. (x - 11)(x - 6) = 0
Which value is a solution to the given equation?
A. 0 B. 11 C. 17 D. 66
Answer: B

564. The function f is defined by f(x) = 3( 1 - x)2 + 5 . What is the value of f( 1 )?

6

6

6

Answer: 5/6

566. 4x + 5y = 18 If the graph of the given equation is shifted up 9 units in the xy-plane, what is the y-intercept of the resulting graph? A. (0, 63 )
5
B. (0, 18 )
5
C. (0, 41 )
5
D. (0, 27)
Answer: A

692. What is 50% of 620? A. 930 B. 620 C. 310 D. 62
Answer: C

693. A biologist is studying the growth of a sunflower plant. The graph models the height y, in centimeters, of the sunflower plant after x weeks of observation.
y 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10
x O 12345678
According to the model, what is the estimated height, in centimeters, of the sunflower plant after 2 weeks of observation?
A. 2
B. 10
C. 30
D. 50
Answer: D

698. A dog walker charges $15 per walk. Which equation gives the total amount t, in dollars, that the dog walker charges for w walks? A. t = 15w B. t = w + 15 C. 15 = tw D. 15 = t + w
Answer: A

699. A triathlon is a multisport race consisting of three different consecutive events. A triathlon participant plans to complete the cycling event with an average speed
of 19,536 yards per hour. What is this average speed, in miles per hour? (1 mile = 1,760 yards)
Answer: 11.1
701. One of the factors of 8x4 + 26x2 + 21 is ax2 + b, where a and b are positive constants. Which of the following is a possible value of ab? A. 3 B. 12 C. 14 D. 28
Answer: D

703. The relationship between the variables x and y is defined by an exponential equation. When x = 0, the value of y is 30, and for every increase in the value of x by 1, the corresponding value of y increases by 70% of its previous value. Which equation represents this relationship? A. y = 30(1.70)x B. y = 30(1.07)x C. y = 70(1.30)x D. y = 70(1.03)x
Answer: A

705. What is the graph of the equation y = 0.3(x - 4)2?

A. y
12

10

8

6

4

2
4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

B. y
12

10

8

6

4

2

4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

C. y
12

10

8

6

4

2

4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

D. y
12

10

8

6

4

2

4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

Answer: B

706. During hibernation, American black bears do not eat or replenish calories. A certain black bear weighed 286 pounds when entering hibernation and lost weight at a mean rate of 0.8 pounds per day. At this rate, how many days after entering hibernation would the black bear weigh 230 pounds? A. 45 B. 56 C. 70 D. 184
Answer: C

708. The sides of a rectangle are such that the length is 13 centimeters more than 6 times the width, in centimeters. If the width of the rectangle is 9 centimeters,
what is the area, in square centimeters, of the rectangle?
Answer: 603

710.

The shaded region shown represents the solutions to which inequality?
A. y > 3x + 7 B. y > 3x - 7 C. y < 3x + 7 D. y < 3x - 7
Answer: A

713. y = 3x - 6 2x + y = 34
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x + y?
Answer: 26

842. If 3 - 4x

=

35, what is the value of

1 5

(3

-

4x)?

A. 175

B. 35

C. 7 D. 5
Answer: C
845. 1.4x = 140 What value of x is the solution to the given equation?
Answer: 100
846. A rectangle has a length of 11 and a width of 5. What is the perimeter of the rectangle? A. 10 B. 22 C. 32 D. 44
Answer: C
847. The equation d = 38w + 100 gives the total amount of money d, in dollars, that Janna plans to save w weeks after she starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars, she plans to save in 10 weeks? A. 430 B. 480 C. 530 D. 580
Answer: B
849. A jar has 610 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are orange. How many marbles in the jar are orange? A. 122 B. 244 C. 305 D. 590
Answer: A
851.

In the figure, lines r and s are parallel. If x = 7k + 15 and y = 9k - 19, what is the value of k? A. 163 B. 134 C. 46 D. 17
Answer: D
852. Which expression is equivalent to 7xy(2x2 + 6y)? A. 9x3y + 13xy2 B. 14x2y + 6y C. 14x2y + 42xy D. 14x3y + 42xy2
Answer: D
854.

In the right triangle shown, a, b, and c are positive constants. For an acute angle D, sin D =

b . What is the measure of angle D, in degrees?
c

Answer: 17

855. Which expression is equivalent to 5xy + 30x2y + 35xy2? A. 5xy(1 + 30x + 35y) B. 5xy(1 + 6x + 7y) C. 5xy(30x + 35y) D. 5xy(6x + 7y)
Answer: B

858. (x - 20)(x - 16)(x + 5)(x + 13) = 0
What is a positive solution to the given equation? Answer: 16

859. x2 + y2 = 153 y - 4x = 0
A solution to the given system of equations is (x, y), where x < 0. What is the value of y? A. -36 B. -12 C. -4 D. -3
Answer: B

994. For the function f, the table shows four values of x and their corresponding values of f(x). x f(x) 1 4,000 2 2,400 3 1,440 4 864
Which of the following could describe this function? A. Decreasing exponential B. Increasing exponential C. Decreasing linear D. Increasing linear
Answer: A

997. An event planner is planning an ice-skating event. It costs the event planner a onetime fee of $50 to rent the skating rink and $10.50 per attendee. The event planner has a budget of $225. What is the greatest number of attendees possible without exceeding the budget?
Answer: 16
998. Which expression is equivalent to 24x3 + 4x? A. 4x2(6x + 1) B. 4x2(6 + 4x) C. 4x(6x2 + 1) D. 4x(6 + 4x)
Answer: C

999. A survey was conducted in Madison to estimate the percent of adult residents who support the addition of a parking garage in their town. Based on the survey, it
is estimated that 63% of all adult residents of Madison support the addition of a parking garage in their town, with an associated margin of error of 3%. Which of the
following is the most appropriate conclusion about all adult residents of Madison?
A. Plausible values for the percent of all adult residents of Madison who support the addition of a parking garage in their town are between 60% and 66%. B. Plausible values for the percent of all adult residents of Madison who support the addition of a parking garage in their town are either less than 60% or more than 66%. C. The addition of a parking garage in the town is supported by exactly 60% of all adult residents of Madison. D. The addition of a parking garage in the town is supported by more than 66% of all adult residents of Madison.
Answer: A

1000. The function g is defined by g(x) = 16x + 25. For what value of x does g(x) = 29?
Answer: 1/4

1002. What is an x-coordinate of an x-intercept of the graph of y = 3(x - 14)(x + 8)(x + 4) in the xy-plane?
Answer: 14

1006. f(x) = 10(x2 + 33)
What is the minimum value of the given function?
A. 0.1 B. 3.3 C. 10 D. 330
Answer: D

1007. Triangle QRS is similar to triangle F GH

such that Q, R, and S correspond to F , G and H, respectively. Each side of triangle F GH

has

1 3

the length of its

corresponding side in triangle QRS. In triangle F GH, the measure of angle F is 35°, the measure of angle G is 6°, and F G = a. In triangle QRS, the measure of

angle Q is b° and QR = 30. What is the value of a + b?

Answer: 45

1136.

In the triangle shown, P Q = QR. What is the value of x? A. 164 B. 74 C. 32 D. 16
1138.

The shaded region shown represents the solutions to which inequality?
A. y < -x + 9 B. y < 9x - 1 C. y > -x + 9 D. y > 9x - 1
1139. The price to rent an event space is 1,125 dollars for the first 3 hours and 125 dollars for each additional hour. What is the total price, in dollars, to rent the event space for 12 hours? A. 4,500 B. 2,625 C. 2,250 D. 1,125
1145.

The figure shown is a right rectangular pyramid, where  = 10 units, w = 5 units, and h = 11 units. What is the surface area, in square units, of the pyramid?
1146. The function f is defined by f(x) = 6 + x. What is the value of f(36)? A. 0 B. 12 C. 15 D. 24
1153. f(x) = 2x + 5 g(x) = 5x - 3 h(x) = 2x + 3
The functions f, g, and h are defined as shown. If f(x)  g(x) - h(x) = ax2 + bx + c, where a, b, and c are constants, what is the value of b? A. -2 B. 17 C. 21 D. 29
1154. x2 - 16 = 0
25
How many distinct real solutions does the given equation have? A. Zero B. Exactly one C. Exactly two D. Infinitely many
1281. For a certain job, an electrician charges $70 per hour for labor plus $125 for parts. Which function f represents the total amount, in dollars, the electrician will charge for this job if it takes x hours? A. f(x) = 70x - 125 B. f(x) = 70x + 125 C. f(x) = 70x D. f(x) = x + 125
1282. 12x + 40 = 160
Which equation has the same solution as the given equation?
A. 12x = 40 B. 12x = 80 C. 12x = 120 D. 12x = 160
1283. To complete a tree survey at a forest preserve, researchers measured the circumference at shoulder height of the trees within a certain section of the forest preserve. The dot plot gives this circumference, to the nearest inch, of each of the trees in this section of the forest preserve.

Based on the dot plot, how many trees had a circumference, to the nearest inch, of 11 inches? A. 1 B. 3 C. 5 D. 15

1285.

Value
36 37 38 39 40

Data set A frequency
n n n n n

Data set B frequency
n-1 n-1
n n+1 n+1

The table shows the frequencies of the values for data set A and data set B, where n is a positive integer constant. Which of the following statements best compares
the means of the two data sets?

A. The mean of data set A is greater than the mean of data set B.

B. The mean of data set A is less than the mean of data set B.

C. The mean of data set A is equal to the mean of data set B.

D. There is not enough information to compare the means of the two data sets.

1286. There are 355 student athletes at Central High School. A sample of the student athletes was selected at random and asked whether they intend to enroll in a new honors program. Of those surveyed, 60% responded that they intend to enroll in the honors program. Based on this survey, which of the following is the best
estimate of the total number of student athletes at Central High School who intend to enroll in the honors program?
A. 60
B. 142
C. 213
D. 355

1287. Which expression is equivalent to 14x2 - 4x2? A. -56x2 B. 10x2 C. 18x2 D. 36x2

1290. y
10

8

6

4

2

8 6 4 2 O 2

x 2468

4

6

The graph shows the linear relationship between x and y. Which table gives three values of x and their corresponding values of y for this relationship?
A.
xy 00 1 -7 2 -12

B.
xy 00 13 28

C.
xy 0 -2 1 -7 2 -12

D.
xy 0 -2 13 28

1291.

In the figure, line p is parallel to line r, and line t intersects both lines. What is the value of x? A. 36 B. 72 C. 180 D. 252
1292.

The graph of y = f(x) is shown in the xy-plane. The value of f(0) is an integer. What is the value of f(0)?

1293. The function f is defined by f(x) = -6x + 50. What is the value of f(-4)? A. -74 B. -26 C. 26 D. 74

1294.
Atmospheric pressure
(pounds per square inch)

y
16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2
x O 2 4 6 8 10 12
Height above sea level (miles)

The graph gives the estimated atmospheric pressure y, in pounds per square inch, as a function of the height x, in miles, above sea level. What is the best interpretation of the point (4.4, 5.9) in this context? A. The estimated atmospheric pressure at sea level is 4.4 pounds per square inch. B. The estimated atmospheric pressure at sea level is 5.9 pounds per square inch. C. The estimated atmospheric pressure 5.9 miles above sea level is 4.4 pounds per square inch. D. The estimated atmospheric pressure 4.4 miles above sea level is 5.9 pounds per square inch.

1295. There are 176 teams participating in a basketball tournament that consists of 4 rounds. Each team participating in the tournament will play against another team in round 1. At the end of each round, the losing team of each game from that round is eliminated and the winning team advances to the next round to play a game against another winning team. Which equation gives the number of teams, t, eliminated at the end of round r, where r  4? A. t = 11( 1 )r
2
B. t = 11(2)r C. t = 176( 1 )r
2
D. t = 176(2)r

1296.

Cylinder A is similar to cylinder B. The volume of cylinder A is 5.13 cubic units and the volume of cylinder B is 1.52 cubic units. The surface area of cylinder A is 22.41
square units. What is the surface area, in square units, of cylinder B?
1297. A cube has an edge length of 45 inches. What is the volume, in cubic inches, of the cube? A. 180 B. 2,025 C. 12,150 D. 91,125
1299. y < -4x + 8

y>x Which point (x, y) is a solution to the given system of inequalities in the xy-plane? A. (-7, -5) B. (7, -5) C. (11, -9) D. (11, 9)
1300. (x - 228)(x + 229) = 0
What is a solution to the given equation?
1427.

The y-intercept of the graph shown is (x, y). What is the value of y?

1428.

School Level Elementary school Middle school High school

Average Number of Books
369 251 92

For a certain school district, the table shows the average number of books in classroom libraries in 2016 by school level. Based on the table, how much greater was
the average number of books in elementary school classroom libraries than in high school classroom libraries?

A. 118

B. 159

C. 277

D. 461

1429. In a box of coins, the ratio of pennies to nickels is 7 to 1. There are 21 pennies in the box. How many nickels are in the box? A. 3 B. 7 C. 21 D. 147

1431. Pilar has spent $183 on office supplies for her business this month. She does not want her total monthly expenses on office supplies to exceed her budget of $266. What is the maximum amount of additional money Pilar can spend on office supplies this month and not exceed her budget? A. $83 B. $183 C. $266 D. $449

1432. Under a certain magnifying lens, the apparent length, in millimeters, of an object is 350% of its actual length, in millimeters. Which of the following types of
functions best models the apparent length, in millimeters, of an object under this magnifying lens as a function of its actual length, in millimeters? A. Decreasing exponential B. Decreasing linear C. Increasing exponential D. Increasing linear

1434.

The graph shows the predicted depth below sea level y, in meters, of a certain seal x minutes after the seal dives into the water. Based on the graph, which of the following is closest to the predicted depth below sea level, in meters, of the seal 2 minutes after the seal dives into the water? A. 324 B. 288 C. 180 D. 0
1436.

In the figure, line n intersects lines r and s. Line r is parallel to line s. What is the value of x?
1437. Which expression is equivalent to 6(y19 + 5)? A. y19 + 11 B. y19 + 30 C. 6y19 + 5 D. 6y19 + 30

1438. 10x + 20 = 140
Which equation has the same solution as the given equation?
A. 10x = 7 B. 10x = 160 C. x + 2 = 10 D. x + 2 = 14

1440. What is the solution to the equation 5x - 19 = 7?
A. 482
25
B. 524
25
C. 26
5
D. 102
5

1441. The function g is defined by g(x) =

2x+
9

7 . What is the value of g(18)?
9

A. 43
9

B. 29
9

C. 25
9

D. 11
9

1442. An object that was launched from the top of a building reached its maximum height of 250 feet above the ground 1.3 seconds after the object was launched. Which of the following graphs could represent the height y, in feet, of the object x seconds after the object was launched?

A.

y

600 500 400 Height (feet) 300 200 100
O

x 123456
Time (seconds)

B.

y

600 500 400 Height (feet) 300 200 100
O

x 123456
Time (seconds)

C.

y

600 500 400 Height (feet) 300 200 100
O

x 123456
Time (seconds)

D.

y

600 500 400 Height (feet) 300 200 100
O

x 123456
Time (seconds)

1443. Hakim has a bag of 20 tiles, where 18 are labeled with a letter and 2 are blank. If Hakim selects a tile from the bag at random, what is the probability of
selecting a blank tile? (Express your answer as a decimal or fraction, not as a percent.)
1444. Line k is defined by y = 19x + 6. Line j is parallel to line k in the xy-plane. What is the slope of line j? A. -19
B. 6
19
C. 19
6
D. 19
1446. 6x + 6y = 9 9x - 6y = 78
In the xy-plane, the graphs of the given equations intersect at (x, y). What is the value of x + y?
1447. (x + 4)2 + (y + 7)2 = 192
In the xy-plane, the graph of the given equation is a circle. What is the length of a radius of this circle?
A. 192 B. 19
C. 19
2
D. 19
1448.

The scatterplot shows the relationship between two variables, x and y. An equation for the exponential model shown can be written as y = a(b)x, where a and b are positive constants. Which of the following is closest to the value of b? A. 0.81 B. 1.81 C. 32.37 D. 125.88

1576. f(a) = (a2 + 12a + 36)(a + 1)

g(b) = b(b + 4)(b - 2)2

The

functions

f

and

g

are

defined

by

the

given

equations.

If

f(3)

=

c,

where

c

is

a

constant,

what

is

the

value

of

g(

c 54

)?

1577. 13x + 20 = 150
Which equation has the same solution as the given equation?
A. 13x = 20 B. 13x = 110 C. 13x = 130 D. 13x = 150

1578. To complete a tree survey at a forest preserve, researchers measured the circumference at shoulder height of the trees within a certain section of the forest preserve. The dot plot gives this circumference, to the nearest inch, of each of the trees in this section of the forest preserve.

Based on the dot plot, how many trees had a circumference, to the nearest inch, of 15 inches? A. 2 B. 4 C. 6 D. 20
1580. There are 132 10th-grade students at Central High School. A sample of the 10th-grade students was selected at random and asked whether they intend to enroll in a new honors program. Of those surveyed, 25% responded that they intend to enroll in the honors program. Based on this survey, which of the following is
the best estimate of the total number of 10th-grade students at Central High School who intend to enroll in the honors program?
A. 25 B. 33 C. 99 D. 132
1587. The function f is defined by f(x) = -3x + 30. What is the value of f(-5)? A. -45 B. -15 C. 15 D. 45
1589. A line in the xy-plane is defined by y = x + b, where b is a constant. This line passes through the point (2, 9). What is the value of b? A. 0 B. 2 C. 7 D. 18
1591. A cube has an edge length of 22 inches. What is the volume, in cubic inches, of the cube? A. 88 B. 484 C. 2,904 D. 10,648
1594. (x - 240)(x + 241) = 0
What is a solution to the given equation?
1726. There are 140 10th-grade students at Central High School. A sample of the 10th-grade students was selected at random and asked whether they intend to enroll in a new honors program. Of those surveyed, 25% responded that they intend to enroll in the honors program. Based on this survey, which of the following is
the best estimate of the total number of 10th-grade students at Central High School who intend to enroll in the honors program?
A. 25 B. 35 C. 105 D. 140
1730. The equation y = 66x gives the estimated distance y, in kilometers, that a car traveled x hours after exiting a parking garage. What is the estimated distance, in kilometers, the car traveled 2 hours after exiting the parking garage? A. 0 B. 64 C. 68 D. 132
1735. An inverter converts 86% of the direct current (DC) power generated by a solar panel into alternating current (AC) power. If the panel generates 350 watts of
DC power, how many watts of AC power result from the conversion?
1738. A cube has an edge length of 29 inches. What is the volume, in cubic inches, of the cube? A. 116 B. 841 C. 5,046 D. 24,389
1870.

In the right triangle shown, XY = 26 and XZ = 1017. What is the value of tan X?
1871. In a box of marbles, the ratio of blue marbles to green marbles is 8 to 1. There are 56 blue marbles in the box. How many green marbles are in the box? A. 7 B. 8 C. 56 D. 448
1875.

The graph shows the predicted depth below sea level y, in meters, of a certain seal x minutes after the seal dives into the water. Based on the graph, which of the following is closest to the predicted depth below sea level, in meters, of the seal 2 minutes after the seal dives into the water? A. 371 B. 308 C. 186 D. 0

1881.

y
14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
x O 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14

An equation of the line shown is 11x + By = C, where B and C are constants. What is the value of C?

A. 144

B. 132

C. 121

D. 11

1889.

The scatterplot shows the relationship between two variables, x and y. An equation for the exponential model shown can be written as y = a(b)x, where a and b are positive constants. Which of the following is closest to the value of b? A. 0.83 B. 1.83 C. 17.28 D. 123.80
2018. In a box of coins, the ratio of pennies to nickels is 9 to 1. There are 36 pennies in the box. How many nickels are in the box? A. 4 B. 9 C. 36 D. 324
2019. y = 2x2 - 24x + 54
The given equation represents a parabola in the xy-plane. Which of the following equations that represent the same parabola displays the x-intercepts as constants or coefficients?
A. y = 2(x2 - 12x) + 54 B. y = 2x(x - 12) + 54 C. y = 2(x - 6)2 - 18 D. y = 2(x - 9)(x - 3)
2020. x + y + z = 53 The given equation relates the number of miles, x, that a cyclist biked on Monday, the number of miles, y, the cyclist biked on Tuesday, and the number of miles, z, that the cyclist biked on Wednesday in a certain week. If the cyclist biked 12 miles on Monday and 16 miles on Tuesday, how many miles did the cyclist bike on
Wednesday?
A. 12 B. 24 C. 25 D. 36
2027. In F GH, the measures of F and G are each 36°. What is the measure of H? A. 72° B. 108° C. 126° D. 144°
2028. A length of 380 meters is equal to how many decimeters? (1 meter = 10 decimeters)

2032. A survey of the daily commuting times, in minutes, of seven different Chicago-based employees at a certain company yielded a data set consisting of the
values 31, 13, 44, 32, 53, 22, and 44. A survey of the daily commuting times, in minutes, of seven different San Francisco-based employees at the same company yielded a data set consisting of the values 46, 31, 19, 33, 48, x, and 38. If the means of the two data sets are equal, what is the value of x?
2033. James purchased a certain baseball card on January 1. The function f(x) = 55(1.03)x, where 0  x  10, gives the predicted value, in dollars, of the baseball card x years after James purchased it. What is the best interpretation of the statement "f(9) is approximately equal to 72" in this context? A. When the baseball card's predicted value is approximately 72 dollars, it is 9% greater than the predicted value, in dollars, on January 1 of the previous year. B. When the baseball card's predicted value is approximately 72 dollars, it is 9 times the predicted value, in dollars, on January 1 of the previous year. C. From the day James purchased the baseball card to 9 years after James purchased the card, its predicted value increased by a total of approximately 72 dollars. D. 9 years after James purchased the baseball card, its predicted value is approximately 72 dollars.
2036. x2 - 2x = 14
What is one of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 14 B. 1 + 15 C. 15 D. 14 + 2
2165. In a box of coins, the ratio of pennies to nickels is 7 to 1. There are 42 pennies in the box. How many nickels are in the box? A. 6 B. 7 C. 42 D. 294
2172. 3x = 8 + 9y -3x = 6 + 9y
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of 6x?
2176. If |16 - 2x| = 58, which of the following is a value of 8 - x? A. 0 B. 8 C. 29 D. 42
2313.

In triangle XY Z,

a c

= k and

b d

= k. What is the value of k?

A. 67

B. 7
6

C. 7
13

D. 137

2315. There are 385 student athletes at Central High School. A sample of the student athletes was selected at random and asked whether they intend to enroll in a new honors program. Of those surveyed, 60% responded that they intend to enroll in the honors program. Based on this survey, which of the following is the best
estimate of the total number of student athletes at Central High School who intend to enroll in the honors program?
A. 60
B. 154
C. 231
D. 385

2322. The function f is defined by f(x) = -4x + 30. What is the value of f(-3)? A. -42 B. -18 C. 18 D. 42
2325. The expression x2 x+7 +2x-35 - 16-x2 x+4 is equivalent to x2+bx+c x-5 , where b and c are constants and x > 5. What is the value of bc?

2326. A cube has an edge length of 35 inches. What is the volume, in cubic inches, of the cube? A. 42,875 B. 7,350 C. 1,225 D. 140
2466. The table shows values of x and their corresponding values of y for three points on line j in the xy-plane. xy 0 -10 1 -4 22
Line k also lies in the xy-plane and is defined by the equation y = 4x. At what point (x, y) do lines j and k intersect? A. (5, 20) B. (5, -44) C. (6, 24) D. (6, 26)
Answer: A
2467.

The scatterplot shows the relationship between the square footage of 12 clothing stores and their annual sales, in millions of dollars. According to the trend shown by the data, which of the following is the best prediction for the annual sales, in millions of dollars, of a clothing store that is 4 thousand square feet? A. 4.1 B. 5.4 C. 7.5 D. 10.1
Answer: C
x
2472. The function f(x) = 1,200(0.5) 17 gives the predicted intensity of a beam f(x), in number of photons in the beam, x millimeters below the surface of a certain material. What is the best interpretation of f(17) = 600? A. A beam at the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 17 photons in the beam. B. A beam at the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 600 photons in the beam. C. A beam 17 millimeters below the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 600 photons in the beam. D. A beam 600 millimeters below the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 1,200 photons in the beam.
Answer: C

2473. x2 + (k - 3)x + 42 = 0 In the given equation, k is a constant. The equation has exactly one real solution. What is the value of k? A. 171 B. 168 C. 165 D. 45
Answer: A
2474. In the xy-plane, the graph of y = 4x intersects the graph of y = x2 - 45 at two points. What is the sum of the x-coordinates of the two points of intersection? A. -45 B. -5 C. 4 D. 9
Answer: C

2475. For the linear function h, h(0) = 0 and h(4) = 3. Which equation defines h?

A. h(x) =

4x
3

B. h(x) =

4x+4
3

C. h(x) =

3x
4

D. h(x) =

3x+3
4

Answer: C

2604.

During a physics demonstration, an object was thrown upward and then fell to the ground. The graph shows the height above the ground y, in feet, of the object x
seconds after it was thrown. To the nearest whole number, what was the total distance, in feet, that the object fell after reaching its highest point above the ground?
Answer: 22

2606. In a box of marbles, the ratio of blue marbles to green marbles is 7 to 1. There are 28 blue marbles in the box. How many green marbles are in the box? A. 4 B. 7 C. 28 D. 196
Answer: A

2610. A carnival charges $2 for each ride ticket and $5 for each game ticket. A family purchased ride tickets and game tickets worth a total of $35. Which equation represents this situation, where x is the number of ride tickets and y is the number of game tickets that this family purchased? A. 2(x + y) = 35 B. 2x + 5y = 35 C. 5(x + y) = 35 D. 5x + 2y = 35
Answer: B

2612. The function g is defined by g(x) = 7x + 1. What is the value of g(x) when x = 1? A. 0 B. 1 C. 7 D. 8
Answer: D

2614. The measures of the interior angles of triangle ABC are 21°, 42°, and x°. What is the value of x? A. 21 B. 63 C. 117 D. 180
Answer: C

2616. A line in the xy-plane passes through the points (9, 1), (0, 8), and (c, 0). What is the value of c?
Answer: 72/7

2618. A manager is responsible for ordering supplies for a coffee shop. The shop's inventory starts with 4,600 disposable cups, and the manager estimates that 70 of these cups are used each day. Based on this estimate, in how many days will the supply of disposable cups reach 1,800? A. 20 B. 40 C. 60 D. 80
Answer: B

2623. A group of 10 gardeners recorded data on the germination rates of their tomato crop for one growing season. The scatterplot shows the relationship between the number of tomato seeds planted, x, and the number of tomato seeds that germinated, y, for each of the gardeners. A line of best fit is also shown.
y 500

400

300

200

100

x

O

100 200 300 400 500

Which of the following is the best interpretation of the slope of the line of best fit in this context?
A. The number of tomato seeds planted is predicted to increase by 70 seeds every 100 days. B. The number of tomato seeds planted is predicted to increase by 350 seeds every 100 days. C. The number of tomato seeds that germinate is predicted to increase by 70 seeds for every additional 100 tomato seeds that are planted. D. The number of tomato seeds that germinate is predicted to increase by 350 seeds for every additional 100 tomato seeds that are planted.

Answer: C

2752. An ice cream shop buys spoons for $0.05 each and bowls for $0.48 each. The total cost of x spoons and y bowls is $578.10. Which equation represents this
situation?
A. 0.48x + 0.05y = 578.10 B. 0.05x + 0.48y = 578.10 C. 0.48x - 0.05y = 578.10 D. 0.05x - 0.48y = 578.10
Answer: B

2762. A jar has 830 marbles, and 20% of these marbles are orange. How many marbles in the jar are orange? A. 166 B. 332 C. 415 D. 810
Answer: A

2765. What is the graph of the equation y = 1.0(x - 2)2?

A. y
12

10

8

6

4

2
4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

B. y
12

10

8

6

4

2

4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

C. y
12

10

8

6

4

2

4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

D. y
12

10

8

6

4

2

4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

Answer: B

3048.

In the triangle shown, P Q = QR. What is the value of x? A. 156 B. 66 C. 48 D. 24
Answer: D
3057. A linear function g is defined by g(x) = ax + b, where a and b are constants. If g(-2) = -7 and g(1) = 5, what is the value of a?
Answer: 4
3065.
xy 0r 3 r - 21 6 r - 42 For a linear relationship between x and y, the table gives three values of x and their corresponding values of y in terms of a constant r. What is the slope of the line in
the xy-plane that represents this relationship?
A. -21 B. -7 C. 7 D. 21
Answer: B
3195.

In the triangle shown, P Q = QR. What is the value of x? A. 145 B. 70 C. 55 D. 35
Answer: D
3198. The equation d = 26w + 100 gives the total amount of money d, in dollars, that James plans to save w weeks after he starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars, he plans to save in 10 weeks? A. 310 B. 360 C. 410 D. 460
Answer: B
3199. In the xy-plane, the graph of the equation y = 7x is translated 6 units down. What is an equation of the resulting graph? A. y = 7x + 6 B. y = 7x - 6 C. y = 7(x+6) D. y = 7(x-6)
Answer: B
3205. In the ancient Roman measurement system, a leuga was a unit of length that was equal to 7,500 pedes. In this measurement system, how many pedes were equivalent to 3.8 leugas?
Answer: 28500
3342.

In the triangle shown, P Q = QR. What is the value of x? A. 158 B. 68 C. 44 D. 22
Answer: D
3346. In the xy-plane, the graph of the equation y = 5x is translated 4 units down. What is an equation of the resulting graph? A. y = 5x + 4 B. y = 5x - 4 C. y = 5(x+4) D. y = 5(x-4)
Answer: B
3347. x2 - 9 = 40
Which value is a solution to the given equation?
A. -40 B. -31 C. -9 D. 7
Answer: D
3350. The scatterplot shows the relationship between two variables, x and y. A line of best fit for the data is also shown.

For how many of the 9 data points is the actual y-value greater than the y-value predicted by the line of best fit? A. 2

B. 4 C. 6 D. 8
Answer: B
3487. If x - 3 = 5, what is the value of (x - 3)? A. 5 B. 22 C. 25 D. 50
Answer: C 3490.
In the triangle shown, P Q = QR. What is the value of x? A. 149 B. 62 C. 59 D. 31
Answer: D
3496. The function f is defined by f(x) = 2 + x. What is the value of f(144)? A. 0 B. 14 C. 38 D. 74
Answer: B
3497. The scatterplot shows the relationship between x and y. A line of best fit is also shown.

Which of the following is closest to the slope of the line of best fit shown?
A. -1.52 B. -0.66 C. 0.66 D. 1.52
Answer: C

3501. The function f is defined by f(x) = 4x - 6. If f(a) + 1 = 3a, what is the value of a? A. 7 B. 5 C. 1 D. -1
Answer: B
3503. P (t) = 19.5(1.036)t The function P gives the predicted population, in millions, of a certain country for the period from 1984 to 2018, where t is the number of years after 1984. According to this function, what is the best interpretation of the statement "P (7) is approximately equal to 24.98"? A. In 1984, the predicted population of this country was approximately 7 million. B. In 1984, the predicted population of this country was approximately 24.98 million. C. 24.98 years after 1984, the predicted population of this country was approximately 7 million. D. 7 years after 1984, the predicted population of this country was approximately 24.98 million.
Answer: D

3634. In a box of marbles, the ratio of blue marbles to green marbles is 6 to 1. There are 30 blue marbles in the box. How many green marbles are in the box? A. 5 B. 6 C. 30 D. 180
Answer: A

3639. What is the x-intercept of the graph of y = 21-x in the xy-plane, where a and b are positive constants?
ax+b

A. (21, 0)

B. (0, -21)

C. (0, 21b )

D.

(-

b a

,

0)

Answer: A

3642. What is the y-intercept of the graph of y = 3x2 + 2x + 8 in the xy-plane? A. (0, 2) B. (0, 3) C. (0, 8) D. (0, 13)
Answer: C

3646.

In the figure shown, line k intersects lines r and s. If w = 158, which additional piece of information is sufficient to prove that lines r and s are parallel? A. x = 22 B. y = 158 C. w + y = 180 D. y + z = 180
Answer: B

3648. A certain university's research farm is 1,000 acres, of which 72 acres contain rice. What percentage of the acres of this research farm contain rice? A. 0.72% B. 7.2% C. 72% D. 720%
Answer: B

3779. What is 50% of 400? A. 600 B. 400 C. 200 D. 40
Answer: C

3785. If x - 1 = 2, what is the value of (x - 1)? A. 2 B. 3 C. 4 D. 8
Answer: C

3926. What is 50% of 820? A. 1,230 B. 820 C. 410 D. 82
Answer: C

3935. x2 - 4 = 21
Which value is a solution to the given equation?
A. -21 B. -17 C. -4 D. 5
Answer: D

3939. What is the graph of the equation y = 0.2(x - 3)2?

A. y
12

10

8

6

4

2
4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

B. y
12

10

8

6

4

2

4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

C. y
12

10

8

6

4

2

4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

D. y
12

10

8

6

4

2

4 2 O 2

x 2 4 6 8 10 12

4

Answer: B

3940. Line p in the xy-plane contains the points (23, 0) and (23, 23). Which equation defines line p? A. x = 23 B. x = 0 C. y = 23 D. y = 0
Answer: A

3941. During hibernation, American black bears do not eat or replenish calories. A certain black bear weighed 318 pounds when entering hibernation and lost weight at a mean rate of 0.8 pounds per day. At this rate, how many days after entering hibernation would the black bear weigh 270 pounds? A. 39 B. 48 C. 60 D. 216
Answer: C

3947. y = 2x - 15 5x + y = 48
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x + y?
Answer: 12
4075. Which expression is a factor of x4 + 14ax2 + 49a2 - 64, where a is a positive constant? A. x2 + 7a + 8 B. x2 - 7a - 8 C. x2 + 14a D. x2 - 8a
Answer: A

4237. In each of the following data sets of 5 values, p is a constant. Which of these data sets has the largest standard deviation? A. p - 5, p, p, p, p + 5 B. p - 10, p - 5, p, p + 5, p + 10 C. p, p, p, p, p D. p - 2, p - 2, p, p + 2, p + 2
Answer: B

4241.
xy 0r 3 r - 48 6 r - 96
For a linear relationship between x and y, the table gives three values of x and their corresponding values of y in terms of a constant r. What is the slope of the line in
the xy-plane that represents this relationship?
A. -48 B. -16 C. 16 D. 48
Answer: B

4376. What is 5% of 580? A. 575 B. 290 C. 116 D. 29
Answer: D
4379. Which expression is equivalent to 40x3 + 5x? A. 5x(8 + 5x) B. 5x(8x2 + 1) C. 5x2(8 + 5x) D. 5x2(8x + 1)
Answer: B

4385. 8x - 7y = 5 4x + y = 8
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x + y?
Answer: 35/12

4388. g(x) = 5(18x - 19) What is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the graph of y = g(x) - 4 in the xy-plane? A. -99 B. -95 C. -23 D. -19
Answer: A

4521.

The shaded region shown represents the solutions to which inequality?
A. y < -4x + 6 B. y < 6x - 4 C. y > -4x + 6 D. y > 6x - 4
Answer: C

4523. The function g is defined by g(x) = 10x + 4. What is the value of g(x) when x = 4? A. 0 B. 4 C. 10 D. 44
Answer: D

4531. Which expression is a factor of 25p15 - 121p13? A. -96p32 B. 11p - 5 C. 25p2 + 121 D. 5p + 11
Answer: D

4533. In the xy-plane, the graph of y = 4x intersects the graph of y = x2 - 77 at two points. What is the sum of the x-coordinates of the two points of intersection? A. -77 B. -7 C. 4 D. 11
Answer: C

4667. 1.5x = 1,500 What value of x is the solution to the given equation?
Answer: 1000

4673. If x - 2 = 3, what is the value of (x - 2)? A. 3 B. 7 C. 9 D. 18
Answer: C

4679. b2 + 9c = 7d

The given equation relates the real numbers b, c, and d, where d >

9 7

c.

Which

equation

correctly

expresses

b

in

terms

of

c

and

d?

A. b = 7d+9c
2

B. b = 7d-9c
2

C. b = ±7d + 9c

D. b = ±7d - 9c

Answer: D

4681. The table gives the perimeters of similar triangles T UV and XY Z, where T U corresponds to XY . The length of T U is 14.

Triangle T UV Triangle XY Z

Perimeter
49 343

What is the length of XY ? A. 2 B. 14 C. 63 D. 98
Answer: D
4812. y  x + 15 y  -2x - 15
Which point (x, y) is a solution to the given system of inequalities in the xy-plane? A. (-9, 3) B. (-9, 6) C. (-11, 3) D. (-11, 6)
Answer: D
4817. Which expression is equivalent to 18(x2 - 8)? A. 18x2 - 144 B. 18x2 - 26 C. 18x2 - 8 D. 18x2 + 10
Answer: A
4821. During a trip, Bill drove his car for 19.0 miles and then began driving at a constant speed of 70.0 miles per hour. After 2 hours of driving at this speed, what is
the total distance, in miles, Bill has traveled during this trip? Answer: 159
4825. What is the y-intercept of the graph of y = ( 3 )x+1 in the xy-plane?
11
A. (3, 11) B. (0, 11) C. (0, 3) D. (0, 3 )
11
Answer: D
4829. Square A has side lengths that are 38 times the side lengths of square B. The area of square A is k times the area of square B. What is the value of k? A. 1,444 B. 76 C. 38 D. 19
Answer: A

4962. s = 50 + 5t The equation gives the speed s, in miles per hour, of a certain car t seconds after it began to accelerate. What is the speed, in miles per hour, of the car 4 seconds
after it began to accelerate?
A. 50 B. 54 C. 55 D. 70
Answer: D
4965. The height of a right circular cylinder is 21 inches, and the circumference of its base is 210 inches. Which expression represents the total surface area, in
square inches, of the cylinder?
A. (21)(210) + 2( 105 )2

B. (21)(210) + ( 105 )2

C. ( 105 )2(21)

D. (21)(210)
Answer: A
4970.

The graph of y = f(x) is shown in the xy-plane. For what value of x does f(x) = 0? A. 6 B. 1 C. 0 D. -6
Answer: A

5109.

5x-
3

1y
4

=

27

x + 3y = -9

The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x + y?

A. -9

B. -7

C. 7

D. 9

Answer: C

5113. The scatterplot shows the relationship between x and y. A line of best fit is also shown.

Which of the following is closest to the slope of the line of best fit shown?
A. -2.43 B. -0.41 C. 0.41 D. 2.43
Answer: C
5117. 35(k+2)
5(k+2)
The given expression is equivalent to c, where c is a constant and k > -2. What is the value of c?
Answer: 7
5253.

In the triangle shown, P Q = QR. What is the value of x? A. 142 B. 76 C. 52 D. 38
Answer: D
5258. In the xy-plane, the graph of the equation y = 9x is translated 7 units down. What is an equation of the resulting graph? A. y = 9x + 7 B. y = 9x - 7 C. y = 9(x+7) D. y = 9(x-7)
Answer: B
5267. A student needs at least 200 signatures from classmates to run for class secretary. The student collects 85 signatures on Monday and collects enough additional signatures on Tuesday to run for class secretary. Which inequality represents the number of additional signatures, s, that the student collects on Tuesday? A. s + 85  200 B. s + 85  200 C. s - 85  200 D. s - 85  200
Answer: B
5268.

A marine biologist is studying a habitat that contains shoal bass, a species of freshwater fish. The box plot shown summarizes the lengths, in centimeters (cm), of a
sample of 75 shoal bass from this habitat. What is the range, in cm, of the lengths of the shoal bass in the sample? A. 12 B. 17 C. 30 D. 45
Answer: B
5269. The graph of a polynomial function y = f(x) in the xy-plane passes through the point (5, 8). What is the value of f(5)? A. 5 B. 8 C. 13 D. 40
Answer: B
5270. The table gives the perimeters of similar triangles T UV and XY Z, where T U corresponds to XY . The length of T U is 21.

Triangle T UV Triangle XY Z

Perimeter
48 336

What is the length of XY ? A. 3 B. 21 C. 69 D. 147
Answer: D
5400.

In the triangle shown, P Q = QR. What is the value of x? A. 157 B. 67 C. 46 D. 23
Answer: D

5401. 1.3x = 130 What value of x is the solution to the given equation?
Answer: 100

5402. s = 40 + 3t The equation gives the speed s, in miles per hour, of a certain car t seconds after it began to accelerate. What is the speed, in miles per hour, of the car 2 seconds
after it began to accelerate?
A. 40 B. 42 C. 43 D. 46
Answer: D

5410. x + 4y = 27 4y = 13
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x?
Answer: 14

5414.

Number of ride tickets
10 15 25

Total amount paid
$26.00 $33.50 $48.50

At a county fair, a family pays a fixed entrance fee. They then purchase ride tickets, which each have the same cost. The table shows the relationship between the
number of ride tickets, x, that are purchased and the total amount paid y, in dollars, for both the entrance fee and the ride tickets. Which equation represents the relationship between x and y?

A. y =

3 x + 11
2

B. y =

3 x - 29
2

C. y = 2 x + 58

3

3

D. y = 2 x + 22

3

3

Answer: A

5417. There is a proportional relationship between p and t. If p = 6,270 when t = 8,360, then what is the value of t when p = 5,016? A. 2,926 B. 3,762 C. 6,688 D. 7,106
Answer: C

5548. 2.7x = 270 What value of x is the solution to the given equation?

5556. What is 5% of 880? A. 44 B. 176 C. 440 D. 875

5690. What is 50% of 860? A. 1,290 B. 860 C. 430 D. 86

5692.

Triangles ABC and ABC  are shown. Triangle ABC is dilated by a scale factor of 3 to form triangle ABC . If the length of AB is 15, what is the length of AB ? A. 45 B. 18 C. 5 D. 3

5699. x2 - 2 = 14
Which value is a solution to the given equation?
A. -14 B. -12 C. -2 D. 4

5701. f(x) = 11x10 + 3x8 g(x) = -15x7 + 7x5
The polynomial p(x) is defined as the product of the given polynomials, f(x) and g(x). What is the coefficient of x15 in p(x)? A. 122 B. 77 C. 32 D. 15

5702. r > 0.24t The given inequality describes the total rainfall r, in inches, in a certain area over a period of t hours, where t  4. Which of the following describes this rainfall? A. An average rainfall of more than 0.24 inches per hour B. An average rainfall of exactly 0.24 inches per hour C. A total rainfall of exactly 4 inches D. A total rainfall of more than 4 inches

5710. 3x2 + 11x - 24 = 0
What is one of the solutions to the given equation? A. -11+409
2(24)
B. -11+409
2(11)
C. -11+409
2(3)
D. -11+409
2

5838.

School Level Elementary school Middle school High school

Average Number of Books
357 230 156

For a certain school district, the table shows the average number of books in classroom libraries in 2016 by school level. Based on the table, how much greater was
the average number of books in elementary school classroom libraries than in high school classroom libraries?

A. 74

B. 127

C. 201

D. 513

5844.

The graph shows the predicted depth below sea level y, in meters, of a certain seal x minutes after the seal dives into the water. Based on the graph, which of the following is closest to the predicted depth below sea level, in meters, of the seal 2 minutes after the seal dives into the water? A. 393 B. 332 C. 202 D. 0
5853. x = 8 y = 24
x
The graphs of the equations in the given system intersect at the point (x, y) in the xy-plane. What is the value of y? A. 192 B. 32 C. 16 D. 3
5856. 10x + 10y = 15 15x - 10y = 70
In the xy-plane, the graphs of the given equations intersect at (x, y). What is the value of x + y?
5858.
The scatterplot shows the relationship between two variables, x and y. An equation for the exponential model shown can be written as y = a(b)x, where a and b are positive constants. Which of the following is closest to the value of b? A. 0.84 B. 1.84 C. 15.58 D. 115.16
5986. 15x + 30 = 180
Which equation has the same solution as the given equation?
A. 15x = 30 B. 15x = 120 C. 15x = 150 D. 15x = 180
5987. 9x(x + 5) = r In the given equation, r is a positive constant. Which of the following must be true?
A. The equation has no real solutions. B. The equation has exactly one real solution. C. The equation has two distinct real solutions. D. There is not enough information to determine the number of real solutions to the equation.
5990. There are 400 10th-grade students at Central High School. A sample of the 10th-grade students was selected at random and asked whether they intend to enroll in a new honors program. Of those surveyed, 48% responded that they intend to enroll in the honors program. Based on this survey, which of the following is
the best estimate of the total number of 10th-grade students at Central High School who intend to enroll in the honors program?
A. 48 B. 192 C. 208 D. 400
6000. A cube has an edge length of 19 inches. What is the volume, in cubic inches, of the cube? A. 6,859 B. 2,166 C. 361 D. 76
6002. To win a trivia game, a player needs to earn at least 80 total points from responding correctly to questions in two rounds of play. Correct responses in the first round are worth 3 points each, and correct responses in the second round are worth 7 points each. Which inequality represents the situation where the player does not win the game, where f is the number of correct responses in the first round and s is the number of correct responses in the second round? A. f + s < 80 B. 3f + 7s < 80 C. 7f + s > 80 D. 7f + 3s > 80
6133. 11x + 60 = 170
Which equation has the same solution as the given equation?
A. 11x = 60 B. 11x = 50 C. 11x = 110 D. 11x = 170
6135. A research study categorized 100 vehicles as either fuel efficient or fuel inefficient. If a vehicle from the study is selected at random, the probability of
selecting a vehicle that was categorized as fuel efficient is 64 . How many of the vehicles in the study were categorized as fuel efficient?
100
6137. There are 195 student athletes at Central High School. A sample of the student athletes was selected at random and asked whether they intend to enroll in a new honors program. Of those surveyed, 20% responded that they intend to enroll in the honors program. Based on this survey, which of the following is the best
estimate of the total number of student athletes at Central High School who intend to enroll in the honors program?
A. 20 B. 39 C. 156 D. 195
6148. A cube has an edge length of 33 inches. What is the volume, in cubic inches, of the cube? A. 132 B. 1,089 C. 6,534 D. 35,937
Section: Section 2, Module 2: Math, Difficulty: hard (284 questions)
126. x + 7y = 26 7y = 13
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x?
Answer: 13

127. Line q in the xy-plane passes through the points (0, 10) and (1, 23). Which equation defines line q?

A. 13x - y + 10 = 0

B. 13x - y +

1 10

=0

C. 13x - y -

1 10

=0

D. 13x - y - 10 = 0

Answer: A

128.

The complete graph of y = f(x) is shown. For how many values of x does f(x) = 0?
A. One B. Two C. Three D. Four Answer: C
129. Which expression is equivalent to 9x3 + 108x2y + xy2 + 12y3? A. (9x2 + 12y)(x + y2) B. (9x2 + y2)(x + 12y) C. (9x3 + y2)(x2 + 12y3) D. (9x3 + y3)(x + 12y)
Answer: B
130.

What is an equation of the graph shown?
A. y = 4-x + 3 B. y = 4x + 3 C. y = 4-x + 2 D. y = 4x + 2
Answer: D

131. A student needs at least 160 signatures from classmates to run for class president. The student collects 45 signatures on Monday and collects enough additional signatures on Tuesday to run for class president. Which inequality represents the number of additional signatures, s, that the student collects on Tuesday? A. s + 45  160 B. s + 45  160 C. s - 45  160 D. s - 45  160
Answer: B

132. 9x + 10y = 24 If the graph of the given equation is shifted up 5 units in the xy-plane, what is the y-intercept of the resulting graph? A. (0, 37 )
5
B. (0, 12 )
5
C. (0, 29) D. (0, 41 )
10
Answer: A

133. There is a proportional relationship between p and t. If p = 2,310 when t = 3,080, then what is the value of t when p = 1,848? A. 1,078 B. 1,386 C. 2,464 D. 2,618
Answer: C
134. The equation y = -4.9(x - 9.1)2 + 12,400 gives the estimated height above ground, y, in meters, of a plane, where x is the number of seconds since it
started a parabolic maneuver. If this equation is graphed in the xy-plane, which of the following is the best interpretation of the vertex of the graph?
A. The plane reached an estimated maximum height of 12,400 meters 4.9 seconds after it started the parabolic maneuver. B. The plane reached an estimated maximum height of 12,400 meters 9.1 seconds after it started the parabolic maneuver. C. The plane reached an estimated maximum height of 4.9 meters 12,400 seconds after it started the parabolic maneuver. D. The plane reached an estimated maximum height of 9.1 meters 12,400 seconds after it started the parabolic maneuver.
Answer: B

135. a(9 - x) = 36 - 4x In the given equation, a is a constant. The equation has exactly one solution. Which of the following CANNOT be the value of a? A. 1 B. 4 C. 9 D. 36
Answer: B

136. A machine makes 4-inch, 7-inch, and 9-inch parts. During a certain day, the number of 4-inch parts that the machine makes is 5 times the number n of 7-inch parts, and the number of 9-inch parts is 4. During this day, the machine makes 100 parts total. Which equation represents this situation? A. 4(5n) + 7n + 9(4) = 100 B. 4n + 7n + 9n = 100 C. 5n + 4 = 100 D. 6n + 4 = 100
Answer: D

137. A circle has center P , and points A and B lie on the circle. The measure of arc AB is 30° and the length of arc AB is 7 units. What is the length, in units, of
the radius of the circle?
Answer: 42

138. An exponential model for the number of squirrels in a certain area estimates that there were 200 squirrels in the area in the year 2003, and that at the end of each 4-year period for the next 20 years, the number of squirrels in the area was 120% more than the number at the end of the previous 4-year period. Which of the following equations represents this model, where N is the estimated number of squirrels in this area t years after 2003, and 0  t  20? A. N = 200(2.20)4t B. N = 200(1.20)4t
t
C. N = 200(1.20) 4
t
D. N = 200(2.20) 4
Answer: D
139. In triangle RST , RS = ST and the length of RT is 76 units. If tan R = 9 , what is the area, in square units, of triangle RST ?
38
A. 722 B. 684 C. 342 D. 171
Answer: C

140. x2 + y2 = 49

y = mx + b
3

In the given system of equations, m and b are negative constants. In the xy-plane, the graphs of the equations in the given system intersect at the point (-4, y), where y < 0. Which expression represents the value of b?

A. 12m - 333

B. -12m + 333

C. 4m - 33

3

3

D. - 4m + 33

3

3

Answer: A

141. The quadratic equation (2x - 36)2 = a, where a is a constant, has exactly one real solution. What is the value of a?
Answer: 0

142. For data set A, the table summarizes the distribution of the number of pieces of mail received by a business each day during a period of 11 days.

Pieces of mail
0 3 4 5 6 7 14

Days
2 2 2 2 1 1 1

The data value 14 is removed from data set A to create data set B, which consists of the remaining 10 data values. Which statement best compares the median of
data set A and the median of data set B?

A. The median of data set B is greater than the median of data set A.

B. The median of data set B is equal to the median of data set A.

C. The median of data set B is less than the median of data set A.

D. There is not enough information to compare the medians of the two data sets.

Answer: B

143. 6x2 + 11 = nx In the given equation, n is a constant. The equation has exactly one solution. What is the value of n2 ?
8
Answer: 33

144. The table gives the areas and perimeters of two similar rectangles, where n is a constant.

Rectangle A Rectangle B

Area (square inches)
1,110 4,440

Perimeter (inches)
370 n

What is the value of n?

A. 740 B. 1,480 C. 2,960 D. 3,700

Answer: A

145.

In the figure, AD and BC intersect at point D. The measure of ABD is w°, the measure of CAD is z°, and AD = 143. If cos w°= 491 , what is the value of tan z°?
Answer: 40/9

146. In triangle XY Z, the measure of angle X is x°, the measure of angle Y is y°, and the measure of angle Z is 17°. If x > y > 17, which of the following additional pieces of information is NOT sufficient to determine the values of x and y? A. The value of 17 - x - 3y B. The value of 17 + 3x + y C. The value of 17 - 3x + 3y D. The value of 17 - 3x - 3y
Answer: D

147. In 2007, Elijah earned 17% more than in 2006, and in 2008 Elijah earned 3% more than in 2007. If Elijah earned y times as much in 2006 as in 2008, which of the following is closest to the value of y? A. 0.1765 B. 0.5100 C. 0.8298 D. 1.2051
Answer: C

273. A line passes through the points (5, 7) and (13, 35) in the xy-plane. What is the slope of the line?
Answer: 7/2

274. The function f is defined by f(x)

=

5( 1
4

- x)2 +

3 4

.

What

is

the

value

of

f

(

1 4

)?

Answer: 3/4

275. p(x) = 132 - 4x The function p shown gives the number of blank sheets of paper, p(x), remaining in a printer x days after the printer had been loaded with paper. Which statement is the best interpretation of p(6) = 108? A. The number of blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer decreased by a total of 6 sheets after 108 days. B. There were 6 blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer 108 days after the printer had been loaded with paper. C. There were 108 blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer 6 days after the printer had been loaded with paper. D. The number of blank sheets of paper remaining in the printer decreased by a total of 108 sheets after 6 days.
Answer: C

276. A student needs at least 80 signatures from classmates to run for class treasurer. The student collects 55 signatures on Monday and collects enough additional signatures on Tuesday to run for class treasurer. Which inequality represents the number of additional signatures, s, that the student collects on Tuesday? A. s + 55  80 B. s + 55  80 C. s - 55  80 D. s - 55  80
Answer: B

277. A group of 10 gardeners recorded data on the germination rates of their tomato crop for one growing season. The scatterplot shows the relationship between the number of tomato seeds planted, x, and the number of tomato seeds that germinated, y, for each of the gardeners. A line of best fit is also shown.
y 500

400

300

200

100

x

O

100 200 300 400 500

Which of the following is the best interpretation of the slope of the line of best fit in this context?
A. The number of tomato seeds planted is predicted to increase by 70 seeds every 100 days. B. The number of tomato seeds planted is predicted to increase by 350 seeds every 100 days. C. The number of tomato seeds that germinate is predicted to increase by 70 seeds for every additional 100 tomato seeds that are planted. D. The number of tomato seeds that germinate is predicted to increase by 350 seeds for every additional 100 tomato seeds that are planted.

Answer: C

278.

Triangle XY Z shown is a right triangle. Which of the following has the same value as sin X? A. cos Y B. cos X C. tan Y D. tan X
Answer: A
279. x2 - 2x = 33
What is one of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 33 B. 1 + 34 C. 34 D. 33 + 2
Answer: B
281.

The graph of the equation y = 2x + k is shown, where k is a constant. What is the value of k? A. -6 B. -5 C. 5 D. 6
Answer: A
282. In triangle RST , the measure of angle R is 37°, the measure of angle S is x°, and the measure of angle T is (3x - 5)°. Point L lies on RS, point K lies on ST , and LK is parallel to RT . What is the measure, in degrees, of angle SKL? (Disregard the degree symbol when entering your answer.)
Answer: 106
283. 32x + 31y = c 31x - 32y = c
In the given system of equations, c is a positive constant. Which of the following could be the point where the graphs of the equations in this system intersect in the
xy-plane?
A. (c, 0) B. (c, c )
63
C. (10, 630) D. (10, - 10 )
63
Answer: D
286. A biologist mixed a solution that is 0.1% sodium chloride by mass with a solution that is 0.05% sodium chloride by mass to obtain a new solution, which has a mass of 90 grams and contains 0.07 grams of sodium chloride. How many grams of 0.1% sodium chloride solution did the biologist use? A. 0.14 B. 40 C. 50 D. 89.86
Answer: C
287. The expression 6(9x + 16)(x - 5) - (4x + 17) can be written in the form ax2 + bx + c, where a, b, and c are constants. What is the value of b?
Answer: -178
288. The triangle inequality theorem states that the sum of any two sides of a triangle must be greater than the length of the third side. If a triangle has side lengths
of 9 and 13, which inequality represents the possible lengths, x, of the third side of the triangle? A. x < 22 B. x > 22 C. 4 < x < 22 D. x < 4 or x > 22
Answer: C
289. At different times on a certain day, a manager at a theme park recorded the number of visitors. An exponential model gives the estimated number of visitors, V , at the theme park t hours after the theme park opened, where t  3. Based on the model, 85 visitors were estimated to be at the theme park when it opened, and every 30 minutes the estimated number of visitors increased by 120% of the estimated number of visitors 30 minutes earlier. Which of the following equations best
represents this model?
A. V = 85(2.20)2t
t
B. V = 85(2.20) 30 C. V = 85(1.20)2t
t
D. V = 85(1.20) 30
Answer: A
291. The functions f and g are defined by the given equations, where x  0, a and b are integer constants, a < b, and a > 1. If y = f(x) and y = g(x) are graphed in the xy-plane, which of the following equations displays, as a constant or coefficient, the minimum value of the function it defines, where x  0?
I. f(x) = a(0.54)-bx II. g(x) = a(1.46)x+2 + b
A. I only B. II only C. I and II D. Neither I nor II
Answer: A
292. The mass of object A is 481% of the mass of object B, and the mass of object A is 0.740% of the mass of object C. If the mass of object C is p% of the mass of object B, what is the value of p?
Answer: 65000
293. Which expression is a factor of y2(x - 8) - 16(x - 8)3? A. y(x - 8) B. (x - 8)(x - 4) C. y + x - 8 D. y + 4x - 32
Answer: D
294. For a study, a group of gophers will be selected from a habitat consisting of 220 gophers, and a group of groundhogs will be selected from a habitat consisting of 200 groundhogs. Some of the gophers and groundhogs will be in a treatment group, and some of the gophers and groundhogs will be in a control group. Which of
the following is necessary for this study to attempt to establish a cause-and-effect relationship between two variables? A. The number of gophers in the treatment group is equal to the number of groundhogs in the treatment group, and the number of gophers in the control group is equal to the number of groundhogs in the control group. B. The gophers and the groundhogs are randomly selected from their respective habitats. C. The gophers and the groundhogs are randomly assigned to the treatment and control groups. D. The average age of the gophers in the treatment group is equal to the average age of the groundhogs in the treatment group, and the average age of the gophers in the control group is equal to the average age of the groundhogs in the control group.
Answer: C
420. A line in the xy-plane has a slope of 0 and passes through the point (8, 4). Which equation represents this line? A. y = 4 B. y = 8 C. y = 4x D. y = 8x
Answer: A
421.

In the figure shown, line k intersects lines r and s. If w = 159, which additional piece of information is sufficient to prove that lines r and s are parallel? A. x = 21 B. y = 159 C. w + y = 180 D. y + z = 180
Answer: B

422. f(x) = 11x10 + 2x8

g(x) = -14x7 + 9x5

The polynomial p(x) is defined as the product of the given polynomials, f(x) and g(x). What is the coefficient of x15 in p(x)? A. 15 B. 71 C. 99 D. 127
Answer: B

423. If 4(2x + 7) = 2(2x + 7) + 58, what is the value of 2x + 7? A. 58 B. 29 C. 22 D. 11
Answer: B

424. b2 + 4c = 9d

The given equation relates the real numbers b, c, and d, where d >

4 c. Which equation correctly expresses b in terms of c and d?
9

A. b = 9d+4c
2

B. b = 9d-4c
2

C. b = ±9d + 4c

D. b = ±9d - 4c

Answer: D

425. 15, 18, 26, 8, 6, 12, 18, 16, 17 The list gives the low temperatures, in degrees Fahrenheit, for 9 days in December in a certain city. According to the list, what is the median low temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit, for these 9 days?
Answer: 16
426. The function f is defined by f(x) = x+11 , and f(a) = -19, where a is a constant. What is the value of a?
5
A. -106 B. -84 C. - 84
5
D. - 8
5
Answer: A

427. There is a proportional relationship between p and t. If p = 5,040 when t = 6,720, then what is the value of t when p = 4,032? A. 5,712 B. 5,376 C. 3,024 D. 2,352
Answer: B

428.
xy 0r 3 r - 24 6 r - 48
For a linear relationship between x and y, the table gives three values of x and their corresponding values of y in terms of a constant r. What is the slope of the line in
the xy-plane that represents this relationship?
A. -24 B. -8 C. 8 D. 24
Answer: B

429. 5x - 3y = 3y + 11 hy = 6 + 5x
In the given system of equations, h is a constant. If the system has no solution, what is the value of h?
Answer: 6

430. The function g is defined by g(x) = (x + 17)(t - x), where t is a constant. In the xy-plane, the graph of y = g(x) passes through the point (26, 0). What is the value of g(0)?
Answer: 442

432. The function h is defined by h(x) = ax + b, where a and b are positive constants. The graph of y = h(x) in the xy-plane passes through the points (0, 7) and (2, 22). What is the value of ab? A. 22 B. 24 C. 28 D. 44
Answer: B

433. 2x2 - 16x - 15 = 0

One solution to the given equation can be written as x

=

h-

1 2

k,

where

h

and

k

are

integer

constants.

What

is

the

value

of

h

+

k?

A. 98

B. 47

C. 38

D. 18

Answer: A

434. The scatterplot shows the relationship between x and y for the 9 data points in data set A.

A quadratic model for the data in data set A can be written as y = 0.04x2 - 0.06x + 6.57. The graph of this model is shown in the xy-plane. The data point at x = 0 was found to be the result of a recording error and was removed from data set A to create data set B, consisting of the remaining 8 data points. A quadratic model for the data in data set B can be written as y = ax2 + bx + c, where a, b, and c are constants. If the quadratic models for data sets A and B are calculated in
the same way, which of the following statements must be true?
I. a > 0.04 II. c < 6.57
A. I only B. II only C. I and II D. Neither I nor II
Answer: C
436. x7 + y5 = 4335 An engineer connects resistors in series, where the resistors in the series have a total resistance of 43 ohms. In this series, there are x resistors of type A, which each
35
have a resistance of a ohms, and y resistors of type B, which each have a resistance of b ohms. The given equation represents this situation. According to this equation, what is the positive difference between the value of a and the value of b? A. 43 B. 2
C. 43
35
D. 2
35
Answer: D
437. Which measure, in radians, is equivalent to (47  180)°? A. 47 B.  + 47 C. - 47 D.  - 47
Answer: A
567. For a certain rectangle, the ratio of the width to the length is 1 to 2. If the width of the rectangle is 91 centimeters, what is the length, in centimeters, of the
rectangle?
Answer: 182
568. A manager is responsible for ordering supplies for a coffee shop. The shop's inventory starts with 6,500 disposable cups, and the manager estimates that 90 of these cups are used each day. Based on this estimate, in how many days will the supply of disposable cups reach 1,100? A. 30 B. 60 C. 90 D. 120
Answer: B
570. The graph of a polynomial function y = f(x) in the xy-plane passes through the point (7, 6). What is the value of f(7)? A. 6 B. 7 C. 13 D. 42
Answer: A
572. 42(x - 1) = 6(-7 + 7x)
How many solutions does the given equation have? A. Zero B. Exactly one C. Exactly two D. Infinitely many
Answer: D
573. Circle A in the xy-plane has the equation (x + 6)2 + (y - 6)2 = 9. Circle B has the same center as circle A. The radius of circle B is two times the radius of circle A. The equation defining circle B in the xy-plane is (x + 6)2 + (y - 6)2 = k, where k is a constant. What is the value of k?
Answer: 36
574.

Line k is shown in the xy-plane. Line j (not shown) is perpendicular to line k and passes through the point (-15, -22). Which equation defines line j?

A. y =

4 x - 10
5

B. y =

4 x - 34
5

C. y =

5 4

x

-

10

D. y =

5 4

x

-

34

Answer: A

575. For the linear function f, f(6) = 17 and f(9) = 8. Which equation defines f?

A. f(x) = -3x + 35

B. f(x) = -3x + 23

C. f(x) =

1x+5
3

D.

f(x)

=

-

1 3

x

+

19

Answer: A

577. Which of the following expressions is(are) a factor of 5x2 + 22x - 48? I. x - 6 II. 5x - 8
A. I only B. II only C. I and II D. Neither I nor II
Answer: B

578.

Value
40 45 50 55 60

Data set A frequency
1 4 5 6 8

Data set B frequency
8 6 5 4 1

Data set A and data set B each consist of 24 values. The table shows the frequencies of the values for each data set. Which of the following statements best
compares the means of the two data sets?

A. The mean of data set A is less than the mean of data set B.

B. The mean of data set A is greater than the mean of data set B.

C. The mean of data set A is equal to the mean of data set B.

D. There is not enough information to compare the means of the data sets.

Answer: B

580. If x = 2n 5xn + 50, where n is a positive integer constant, what is the value of xn?
Answer: 10

582. Each side of a 30-sided polygon has one of three lengths. The number of sides with length 4 centimeters (cm) is 5 times the number of sides n with length 8 cm. There are 6 sides with length 3 cm. Which equation must be true for the value of n? A. 5n + 6 = 30 B. 6n + 6 = 30 C. 4n + 8n + 3n = 30 D. 4(5n) + 8n + 3(6) = 30
Answer: B

585. The perimeter of an isosceles right triangle is 94 + 942 inches. What is the length, in inches, of the hypotenuse of this triangle? A. 47 B. 472 C. 94 D. 942
Answer: C

714. x + y = 135 x + y + y = 175
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of y?
Answer: 40

715. For the linear function h, h(0) = 0 and h(11) = 7. Which equation defines h?

A. h(x) =

11 x
7

B. h(x) =

11 x + 11
7

C. h(x) = 7 x
11

D. h(x) =

7 x+7
11

Answer: C

716. The graph of 3x + y = 11 in the xy-plane is a line. What is the slope of the line?
Answer: -3
717. One of the factors of 8x4 + 26x2 + 21 is ax2 + b, where a and b are positive constants. Which of the following is a possible value of ab? A. 3 B. 12 C. 14 D. 28
Answer: D

718.

A marine biologist is studying a habitat that contains shoal bass, a species of freshwater fish. The box plot shown summarizes the lengths, in centimeters (cm), of a
sample of 75 shoal bass from this habitat. What is the range, in cm, of the lengths of the shoal bass in the sample? A. 14 B. 19 C. 28 D. 47
Answer: B
720. x2 + y2 = 1,088 y - 4x = 0
A solution to the given system of equations is (x, y), where x < 0. What is the value of y? A. -256 B. -32 C. -8 D. -4
Answer: B
723. Which quadratic equation has no real solutions?
A. 14r2 = 13 B. 14r2 = -13r + 13 C. -14r2 = -13r D. -14r2 = -13r + 13
Answer: D
725.

The graph of the equation y = 3x + k is shown, where k is a constant. What is the value of k? A. -4 B. -3 C. 3 D. 4
Answer: A

861. r > 0.07t The given inequality describes the total rainfall r, in inches, in a certain area over a period of t hours, where t  4. Which of the following describes this rainfall? A. An average rainfall of more than 0.07 inches per hour B. An average rainfall of exactly 0.07 inches per hour C. A total rainfall of exactly 4 inches D. A total rainfall of more than 4 inches
Answer: A

862.

Number of food tickets
10 15 25

Total amount paid
$40.00 $47.50 $62.50

At a fundraiser, a family pays a fixed entrance fee. They then purchase food tickets, which each have the same cost. The table shows the relationship between the
number of food tickets, x, that are purchased and the total amount paid y, in dollars, for both the entrance fee and the food tickets. Which equation represents the relationship between x and y?

A. y =

3 x + 25
2

B. y = 3 x - 50
2

C. y = 2 x + 100

3

3

D. y = 2 x + 50

3

3

Answer: A

864. A student needs at least 150 signatures from classmates to run for class president. The student collects 30 signatures on Monday and collects enough additional signatures on Tuesday to run for class president. Which inequality represents the number of additional signatures, s, that the student collects on Tuesday? A. s + 30  150 B. s + 30  150 C. s - 30  150 D. s - 30  150
Answer: B

865.

The area of triangle ABC is 20 square centimeters. What is the height h, in centimeters, of this triangle? A. 2 B. 4 C. 8 D. 10
Answer: B

866. f(x) = 4x + 5 g(x) = 5x - 2 h(x) = 6x + 7
The functions f, g, and h are defined as shown. If f(x)  g(x) - h(x) = ax2 + bx + c, where a, b, and c are constants, what is the value of b? A. -6 B. 11 C. 23 D. 27
Answer: B
867. What is the radius of the circle in the xy-plane defined by (x + 4)2 + (y + 8)2 = 361?
Answer: 19

868. If 3 - 4x

=

35, what is the value of

1 5

(3

-

4x)?

A. 175

B. 35

C. 7

D. 5

Answer: C

869. How many solutions does the equation 4(x + 10) + 6x = 10(x + 4) have?
A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero
Answer: C

870. |4x-72|+4 = 9
8
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A. 1 B. 35 C. 36 D. 72
Answer: C

872. The function h is defined by h(x) = ax + b, where a and b are positive constants. The graph of y = h(x) in the xy-plane passes through the points (0, 11) and (2, 35). What is the value of ab? A. 35 B. 50 C. 55 D. 70

Answer: B

873. 2x2 - 16x - 27 = 0

One solution to the given equation can be written as x

=

h-

1 2

k,

where

h

and

k

are

integer

constants.

What

is

the

value

of

h

+

k?

A. 14

B. 18

C. 59

D. 122

Answer: D

876. Which expression is equivalent to 5xy + 30x2y + 35xy2? A. 5xy(1 + 30x + 35y) B. 5xy(1 + 6x + 7y) C. 5xy(30x + 35y) D. 5xy(6x + 7y)
Answer: B

877. An area of 42.00 square nautical miles is equivalent to k square kilometers. To the nearest tenth, what is the value of k? (1 nautical mile = 1.852 kilometers)
Answer: 144.1

878. The function v is defined by the equation v(x) = x2+bx+c , where b and c are constants. In the xy-plane, the graph of y = v(x) passes through the points
(x+5)(x-17)

(0,

77 85

)

and (11, 0). If v(q)

=

0, which of the following could be the value of q?

A. -7

B. -5

C. 5

D. 7

Answer: A

1008. A manager is responsible for ordering supplies for a coffee shop. The shop's inventory starts with 6,500 disposable cups, and the manager estimates that 90 of these cups are used each day. Based on this estimate, in how many days will the supply of disposable cups reach 2,000? A. 25 B. 50 C. 75 D. 100
Answer: B

1009. Zuri has a goal to run at least 16 miles per week while training for a race. This week, she has run 5 miles. If x represents the additional number of miles Zuri
needs to run this week to meet her goal, which inequality represents this situation?
A. 5 - x  16 B. 5 + x  16 C. 5 - x  16 D. 5 + x  16
Answer: D

1012. For the function f, the table shows four values of x and their corresponding values of f(x). x f(x) 1 4,000 2 2,400 3 1,440 4 864
Which of the following could describe this function? A. Decreasing exponential B. Increasing exponential C. Decreasing linear D. Increasing linear
Answer: A

1015. The table shows the distribution of people in a certain city by age group.

Age group
Less than 18 years old 18-40 years old 41-65 years old Greater than 65 years old

Proportion
29% 27% 23% 21%

If a person in this city is selected at random, which of the following is closest to the probability of selecting a person who is greater than 65 years old, given that the person is at least 18 years old?

A. 0.21

B. 0.30

C. 0.50

D. 0.72

Answer: B

1018. a, 26, 29, b, 33, 46, c For the given data set, the data values are listed in ascending order, where a, b, and c are constants. For this data set, the mean is 36, the median is 29, and the range is 71. What is the value of c? A. 55 B. 71 C. 80 D. 97
Answer: C

1019. Which of the following expressions is(are) a factor of 4x2 + 27x - 40? I. x - 8 II. 4x - 5
A. I only B. II only C. I and II D. Neither I nor II
Answer: B

1021. The function g is defined by g(x) = 16x + 25. For what value of x does g(x) = 29?
Answer: 1/4

1022. 2x2 - 20x - 21 = 0

One solution to the given equation can be written as x

=

h-

1 2

k,

where

h

and

k

are

integer

constants.

What

is

the

value

of

h

+

k?

A. 22

B. 63

C. 71

D. 147

Answer: D

1025. The result of increasing the quantity x by 600% is 168. What is the value of x? A. 24 B. 28 C. 432 D. 1,008
Answer: A

1156. A total of 50 people attended a conference and were offered a choice of 4 types of entrees. The table shows the number of people who chose each type of
entree.

Type of entree Beef Chicken Fish Vegetarian
Total

Number of people
16 21 6 7 50

If one of these people is selected at random, what is the probability of selecting a person who chose a vegetarian entree? (Express your answer as a decimal or fraction, not as a percent.)

Answer: 7/50

1159.

The shaded region shown represents the solutions to which inequality?
A. y < -x + 9 B. y < 9x - 1 C. y > -x + 9 D. y > 9x - 1
Answer: C

1160. Line t in the xy-plane has a slope of

1 9

and passes through the point (45, -7). Which equation defines line t?

A. y

=

-12x +

1 9

B. y = x - 12
9

C. y = x - 7
9

D. y = 45x - 7

Answer: B

1163. How many solutions does the equation 10(x + 15) + 5x = 15(x + 10) have?
A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero
Answer: C

1169. r(x) = 12(x - 2) s(x) = x3 + nx2 + 2nx + 8
For the given functions r and s, n is a constant. If r(x)  s(x) = 12(x4 - 16), what is the value of n?
Answer: 2

1171.

The figure shown is a right rectangular pyramid, where  = 10 units, w = 5 units, and h = 11 units. What is the surface area, in square units, of the pyramid?
Answer: 50+5*sqrt(509)+5*sqrt(146)
1302. A toy car is rolled along an elevated track. A quadratic equation models the car's height above the ground y, in inches, x seconds after it started rolling. The model shows that after 1 second the car was at a height of 11 inches and after 5 seconds the car was at its minimum height of 2 inches. Which of the following could
be the graph of this model? A.

B.

C.

D.

Answer: B
1303. The ratio of the side length of square A to the side length of square B is 2 to 6. Square A has a side length of 19 inches. What is the side length, in inches, of
square B? Answer: 57
1304. The scatterplot shows 12 data points and a line of best fit for the data.

Which of the following is closest to the slope of the line of best fit shown? A. 1
2
B. 1
3
C. 14 D. 1
5
Answer: C

1305. (3x + 8)(2x - 3) = 0
Which of the following is a solution to the given equation?
A. - 8
3
B. - 3
2
C. - 2
3
D. - 3
8
Answer: A

1306. An environmental scientist studies the decomposition of paper bags when the bags are placed in an environment with a certain type of bacteria. The
exponential function f(x) = 545(0.91)x gives the estimated remaining mass, in grams, of the paper bags x days after they are placed in an environment with this bacteria, where 0  x  30. If this function is graphed in the xy-plane, where y = f(x), which statement is the best interpretation of the point (1, 495.95) on the
graph?
A. The estimated remaining mass of the paper bags 1 day after they are placed in an environment with this bacteria is 495.95 grams less than it was the day before.
B. The estimated remaining mass of the paper bags after they are placed in an environment with this bacteria is decreasing by 495.95 grams per day.
C. The estimated remaining mass of the paper bags 1 day after they are placed in an environment with this bacteria is 495.95 grams.
D. The estimated remaining mass of the paper bags 495.95 days after they are placed in an environment with this bacteria is 1 gram.
Answer: C

1307. At an amusement park, visitors wait in line for a certain ride. People in this line get on the ride at a rate of 12 people per minute. At the end of a certain day, 201 people are in line for the ride when the line closes. If these 201 people will get on the ride and no additional people are allowed to get in line, which function p models the number of people who remain in line t minutes after it closes? A. p(t) = -12t + 201 B. p(t) = 12t + 201 C. p(t) = 12t - 201 D. p(t) = 213t
Answer: A

1308. A biologist recorded the head stripe colors for a random sample of sparrows from a certain population. Each sparrow has either a white-striped head or a tanstriped head. The results are shown in the table.

White-striped head

22

Tan-striped head

27

Based on these results, if there are a total of 686 sparrows in this population, which of the following is the best estimate of how many more sparrows in the population
have a tan-striped head than have a white-striped head?

A. 5

B. 70

C. 308

D. 378

Answer: B

1310. The expression (7x + y)(x + 7y)(3x + y) is equivalent to ax3 + bx2y + cxy2 + dy3, where a, b, c, and d are constants. What is the value of c?
Answer: 71

1311.

x -13 -1 13

y
28 + 13
28
28 + 1
28
28 - 13
28

The table shows three values of x and their corresponding values of y. There is a linear relationship between x and y. In the xy-plane, what is the x-intercept of the
graph that represents this relationship?

A.

(-

1 784

,

0)

B. (28, 0)

C. (-28, 0)

D. (784, 0)

Answer: D

1313. y = 2( a )x+c - b
9
How many times does the graph of the given equation in the xy-plane cross the x-axis, where a, b, and c are positive constants such that a > 9 and b > c?
A. Zero B. One C. Two D. Three
Answer: B

1314.

For the right circular cone shown, OP is a radius of the base and V is the vertex. The cone's lateral surface area, in square meters, is rL, where r is the length, in meters, of OP and L is the length, in meters, of V P . The cone has a base area of 81 square meters and a lateral surface area of 128 square meters. What is the
height of the cone, to the nearest meter?
Answer: 11

1315. If 10 + 6(7-x) = 4(7-x) , which equation must also be true?

5

3

A. 7 - x = 148

B. 7 - x = -75

C. x - 7 = 148

D. x - 7 = -75

Answer: D

1316. A square is inscribed in a circle with radius 43 inches. If the perimeter of the square is a2 inches, what is the value of a? A. 43 B. 86 C. 172 D. 344
Answer: C

1317. Line s is defined by x - 3y = 21. Line t is perpendicular to line s in the xy-plane and passes through the points (k, 0) and (60, -k). What is the value of k?
Answer: 45

1318. The result of increasing the quantity x by 500% is 150. What is the value of x? A. 25 B. 30 C. 350 D. 750
Answer: A

1320.

Cylinder A is similar to cylinder B. The volume of cylinder A is 5.13 cubic units and the volume of cylinder B is 1.52 cubic units. The surface area of cylinder A is 22.41
square units. What is the surface area, in square units, of cylinder B?
Answer: 9.96

1321. 2x + 5y = 7

8x + 20y = 28

For each real number r, which of the following points lies on the graph of each equation in the xy-plane for the given system?

A. (r, - 5r2 + 72 )

B. (r, 2r + 7 )

5

5

C. ( r4

+

7,

-

r 4

+ 28)

D. (- 5r + 7 , r)

2

2

Answer: D

1322. The function f is defined by f(x) = x2+ax+b , where a, b, and c are constants. The graph of the function f in the xy-plane, where y = f(x), does not
2x+c
intersect the line x = 4. If f(6) = f(8) = 0, what is the value of a + b + c?
Answer: 26

(x-12)
1449. If 4 = 15, what is the value of x - 12?
Answer: 60

1450. What is the slope of a line that is parallel to the graph of y = 5 x + 8 in the xy-plane?
2
A. - 5
2
B. - 2
5
C. 2
5
D. 5
2
Answer: D

1451. A hotel has rooms with a balcony that cost $100 per night to rent and rooms without a balcony that cost $80 per night to rent. On a given night, the hotel received $6,800 from renting both types of rooms. If a total of 76 rooms were rented, how many rooms with a balcony were rented on that night? A. 34 B. 36 C. 38 D. 40
Answer: B
1452. Under a certain magnifying lens, the apparent length, in millimeters, of an object is 350% of its actual length, in millimeters. Which of the following types of
functions best models the apparent length, in millimeters, of an object under this magnifying lens as a function of its actual length, in millimeters? A. Decreasing exponential B. Decreasing linear C. Increasing exponential D. Increasing linear
Answer: D
1453. T (x) = 66 - 8x The function T estimates the temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit (°F), in a certain city one day in January, where x is the number of hours after 10 a.m. and 1  x  7. Which statement is the best interpretation of T (6) = 18 in this context? A. 6 hours after 10 a.m., the function estimates that the temperature is 18°F. B. 6 hours before 10 a.m., the function estimates that the temperature decreased 18°F. C. 6 hours after 10 a.m., the function estimates that the temperature decreased 18°F. D. 6 hours before 10 a.m., the function estimates that the temperature is 18°F.
Answer: A
1454.

In the figure, lines a and b are parallel and line c intersects both lines. If r = 8k - 10 and s = 7k - 65, what is the value of t?
Answer: 126

1456. There is a proportional relationship between p and t. If p = 6,240 when t = 8,320, then what is the value of t when p = 4,992? A. 2,912 B. 3,744 C. 6,656 D. 7,072
Answer: C
1457. f(x) = x2 + bx g(x) = 9x2 - 63x
Functions f and g are given, and in function f, b is a constant. If f(x)  g(x) = 9x4 - 62x3 - 7x2, what is the value of b? A. -62 B. - 62
9
C. 1
9
D. 9
Answer: C

1458. The minimum value of x is 9 less than 6 times another number n. Which inequality shows the possible values of x? A. x  6n - 9 B. x  6n - 9 C. x  9 - 6n D. x  9 - 6n
Answer: B

1459.

The

function

f

is

defined

by

f(x)

=

-

1 2

(x

-

9)

+

8.

For

what

value

of

x

does

f(x)

=

4a,

where

a

is

a

constant?

A. -2a + 7
2

B. -2a + 25
2

C. -8a + 25

D. -8a - 7

Answer: C

1460. A right isosceles triangle has an area of 48 square units. What is the length, in units, of the hypotenuse? A. 24 B. 48 C. 96 D. 192
Answer: D

1461.

Red maple Chestnut oak
Total

Site A
16 12 28

Site B
24 30 54

Total
40 42 82

The table shows the distribution of two types of trees at two different sites. If a tree represented in the table is selected at random, what is the probability of selecting a tree from site A, given that the tree is a red maple? (Express your answer as a decimal or fraction, not as a percent.)

Answer: 2/5

1462. What is the solution to the equation 5x - 19 = 7?
A. 482
25
B. 524
25
C. 26
5
D. 102
5
Answer: A

1463. The function f is defined by f(x) = 8x2 + kx - 17, where k is a constant. In the xy-plane, the graph of y = f(x) passes through the points (r, 21) and (2r, 123), where r is a constant. Which of the following could be the value of k? A. 3 B. 9 C. 102 D. 144
Answer: A
1464. r(m) = (1.037)4m The function r is defined by the given equation. The value of r(m) increases by p% for each increase by 1 in the value of m. Which of the following is closest to the value of p? A. 0.912 B. 3.7 C. 15.642 D. 25.925
Answer: C
1466. f(x) = 29(b)x + c The function f is defined by the given equation, where b and c are constants and b > 1. In the xy-plane, the graph of y = f(x) contains the point (0, 44). For all values of x, f(x) > k, where k is a constant. What is the greatest possible value of k?
Answer: 15

1467. The area of a rectangular field is 2,661 square feet. The field's length x, in feet, is 23 feet longer than its width, in feet. Which equation represents this
situation?
A. 0 = x2 - 23x - 2,661 B. 0 = x2 - 23x + 2,661 C. 0 = x2 + 23x - 2,661 D. 0 = x2 + 23x + 2,661
Answer: A

1468. 3x(x + 6) = 11

One solution to the given equation can be written as m +

1 3

n,

where

m

and

n

are

integer

constants.

What

is

the

value

of

m

+

n?

Answer: 111

1469. A right rectangular prism has a base area of 32t square centimeters (cm2). The length of the base of the rectangular prism is 16 cm, and the height of the
3
rectangular prism is 3 cm. Which expression represents the surface area, in cm2, of the right rectangular prism? A. 64t + 64 B. 100t + 32 C. 1,088t + 32 D. 96t
Answer: B

1596. If (x-6) = 5, what is the value of x - 6?
3
Answer: 15

1600. f(a) = (a2 + 12a + 36)(a + 1)

g(b) = b(b + 4)(b - 2)2

The

functions

f

and

g

are

defined

by

the

given

equations.

If

f(3)

=

c,

where

c

is

a

constant,

what

is

the

value

of

g(

c 54

)?

Answer: 960

1603. There is a proportional relationship between p and t. If p = 3,960 when t = 5,280, then what is the value of t when p = 3,168? A. 4,488 B. 4,224 C. 2,376 D. 1,848
Answer: B

1605. The minimum value of x is 4 less than 7 times another number n. Which inequality shows the possible values of x? A. x  7n - 4 B. x  7n - 4 C. x  4 - 7n D. x  4 - 7n
Answer: B

1608. A line in the xy-plane is defined by y = x + b, where b is a constant. This line passes through the point (2, 9). What is the value of b? A. 0 B. 2 C. 7 D. 18
Answer: C

1610. The function f is defined by f(x) = 8x2 + kx - 21, where k is a constant. In the xy-plane, the graph of y = f(x) passes through the points (r, 19) and (2r, 123), where r is a constant. Which of the following could be the value of k? A. 4 B. 13 C. 104 D. 142
Answer: A
1611. r(m) = (1.031)4m The function r is defined by the given equation. The value of r(m) increases by p% for each increase by 1 in the value of m. Which of the following is closest to the value of p? A. 0.766 B. 3.1 C. 12.989 D. 25.775
Answer: C

1746. The equation y = 66x gives the estimated distance y, in kilometers, that a car traveled x hours after exiting a parking garage. What is the estimated distance, in kilometers, the car traveled 2 hours after exiting the parking garage? A. 0 B. 64 C. 68 D. 132
Answer: D

1750. There is a proportional relationship between p and t. If p = 7,410 when t = 9,880, then what is the value of t when p = 5,928? A. 3,458 B. 4,446 C. 7,904 D. 8,398
Answer: C

1756. The function f is defined by f(x) = 9x2 + kx - 17, where k is a constant. In the xy-plane, the graph of y = f(x) passes through the points (r, 27) and (2r, 143), where r is a constant. Which of the following could be the value of k? A. 4 B. 8 C. 116 D. 170
Answer: A
1757. r(m) = (1.027)5m The function r is defined by the given equation. The value of r(m) increases by p% for each increase by 1 in the value of m. Which of the following is closest to the value of p? A. 0.534 B. 2.7 C. 14.249 D. 20.54
Answer: C

1760. An inverter converts 86% of the direct current (DC) power generated by a solar panel into alternating current (AC) power. If the panel generates 350 watts of
DC power, how many watts of AC power result from the conversion?
Answer: 301

1894. (7x + 6)(4x - 7) = 0
Which of the following is a solution to the given equation?
A. - 74 B. - 7
6
C. - 67 D. - 47
Answer: C

1897. A biologist recorded the head stripe colors for a random sample of sparrows from a certain population. Each sparrow has either a white-striped head or a tanstriped head. The results are shown in the table.

White-striped head

22

Tan-striped head

29

Based on these results, if there are a total of 765 sparrows in this population, which of the following is the best estimate of how many more sparrows in the population
have a tan-striped head than have a white-striped head?

A. 7

B. 105

C. 330

D. 435

Answer: B

1901.

y
14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
x O 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14

An equation of the line shown is 11x + By = C, where B and C are constants. What is the value of C?

A. 144

B. 132

C. 121

D. 11

Answer: B

1905. A square is inscribed in a circle with radius 21 inches. If the perimeter of the square is a2 inches, what is the value of a? A. 21 B. 42 C. 84 D. 168
Answer: C

1907. The result of increasing the quantity x by 700% is 392. What is the value of x? A. 49 B. 56 C. 308 D. 2,744
Answer: A

2038. During hibernation, American black bears do not eat or replenish calories. A certain black bear weighed 324 pounds when entering hibernation and lost weight at a mean rate of 0.8 pounds per day. At this rate, how many days after entering hibernation would the black bear weigh 260 pounds? A. 52 B. 64 C. 80 D. 208
Answer: C

2041. 4x2 - 4x - 24 = 0
What is the product of the solutions to the given equation?
A. -24 B. -6 C. 6 D. 24
Answer: B

2043. 22(x - 1) = 2(-11 + 11x)
How many solutions does the given equation have? A. Zero B. Exactly one C. Exactly two D. Infinitely many
Answer: D

2045. y = 2x2 - 24x + 54
The given equation represents a parabola in the xy-plane. Which of the following equations that represent the same parabola displays the x-intercepts as constants or coefficients?
A. y = 2(x2 - 12x) + 54 B. y = 2x(x - 12) + 54 C. y = 2(x - 6)2 - 18 D. y = 2(x - 9)(x - 3)
Answer: D

2048. The function f gives the product of a number, x, and a number that is 88 more than x. Which equation defines f? A. f(x) = x2 + x + 88 B. f(x) = x2 + 88 C. f(x) = x2 + 88x D. f(x) = x2 + 88x + 88
Answer: C
2049. The function f is defined by f(x) = 53(0.14)x. For any positive integer n, the value of f(n) is p% less than the value of f(n - 1). What is the value of p? A. 14 B. 47 C. 53 D. 86
Answer: D

2054. A length of 380 meters is equal to how many decimeters? (1 meter = 10 decimeters)
Answer: 3800

2185. During hibernation, American black bears do not eat or replenish calories. A certain black bear weighed 324 pounds when entering hibernation and lost weight at a mean rate of 0.9 pounds per day. At this rate, how many days after entering hibernation would the black bear weigh 270 pounds? A. 49 B. 54 C. 60 D. 243
Answer: C

2188. 2x2 - 2x - 60 = 0
What is the product of the solutions to the given equation?
A. -60 B. -30 C. 30 D. 60
Answer: B

2193. 3x = 8 + 9y -3x = 6 + 9y
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of 6x?
Answer: 2
2196. The function f is defined by f(x) = 54(0.11)x. For any positive integer n, the value of f(n) is p% less than the value of f(n - 1). What is the value of p? A. 11 B. 46 C. 54 D. 89
Answer: D

2200. If |16 - 2x| = 58, which of the following is a value of 8 - x? A. 0 B. 8 C. 29 D. 42
Answer: C
2331. If (x-14) = 15, what is the value of x - 14?
2
Answer: 30

2335.

In triangle XY Z,

a c

= k and

b d

= k. What is the value of k?

A. 67

B. 7
6

C. 7
13

D. 137

Answer: B

2338. There is a proportional relationship between p and t. If p = 3,570 when t = 4,760, then what is the value of t when p = 2,856? A. 4,046 B. 3,808 C. 2,142 D. 1,666
Answer: B
2340. The minimum value of x is 11 less than 10 times another number n. Which inequality shows the possible values of x? A. x  10n - 11 B. x  10n - 11 C. x  11 - 10n D. x  11 - 10n
Answer: B
2347. The expression x2 x+7 +2x-35 - 16-x2 x+4 is equivalent to x2+bx+c x-5 , where b and c are constants and x > 5. What is the value of bc?
Answer: -189
2351. A right rectangular prism has a base area of 20t square centimeters (cm2). The length of the base of the rectangular prism is 10 cm, and the height of the
3
rectangular prism is 12 cm. Which expression represents the surface area, in cm2, of the right rectangular prism? A. 40t + 160 B. 184t + 80 C. 1,640t + 80 D. 240t
Answer: B
2485. The table shows values of x and their corresponding values of y for three points on line j in the xy-plane. xy 0 -10 1 -4 22
Line k also lies in the xy-plane and is defined by the equation y = 4x. At what point (x, y) do lines j and k intersect? A. (5, 20) B. (5, -44) C. (6, 24) D. (6, 26)
Answer: A
2486. h(t) = -16t2 + b The function h estimates an object's height, in feet, above the ground t seconds after the object is dropped, where b is a constant. The function estimates that the object is 19.36 feet above the ground when it is dropped at t = 0. How many seconds after being dropped does the function estimate the object will hit the ground?
Answer: 1.1
2487. |4x - 3| = -9
How many solutions does the given equation have? A. Zero B. One C. Two D. Infinitely many Answer: A
2488. The function h is defined by h(x) = ax + b, where a and b are positive constants. The graph of y = h(x) in the xy-plane passes through the points (0, 10) and (2, 13). What is the value of ab? A. 13 B. 18 C. 20 D. 26
Answer: B
2490. The function f is defined by f(x) = 56(0.19)x. For any positive integer n, the value of f(n) is p% less than the value of f(n - 1). What is the value of p? A. 19 B. 44 C. 56 D. 81
Answer: D
2491. x2 + (k - 3)x + 42 = 0 In the given equation, k is a constant. The equation has exactly one real solution. What is the value of k? A. 171 B. 168 C. 165 D. 45
Answer: A
2627. The length of a rectangle's diagonal is 106, and the length of one of the rectangle's sides is 9. What is the perimeter of the rectangle? A. 106 B. 45 C. 28 D. 14
Answer: C
2637. A beekeeper's initial observation of the population of a certain bee colony was 1,800 bees. The beekeeper set a goal to increase the population to 3,300 bees. The beekeeper uses a model that predicts the population of this bee colony begins at 1,800 and increases by 120 bees per week in the first two weeks after the initial observation, and then increases by 180 bees per week until the beekeeper's goal is reached. According to this model, at the end of week w after the initial observation, where w > 2, which of the following functions gives the predicted number of bees still needed to reach the beekeeper's goal? A. p(w) = 3,300 - 180w B. p(w) = 3,180 + 180w C. p(w) = 1,620 - 180w D. p(w) = -120 + 180w
Answer: C
2642. A line in the xy-plane passes through the points (9, 1), (0, 8), and (c, 0). What is the value of c?
Answer: 72/7
2772. The scatterplot shows the relationship between x and y. A line of best fit is also shown.

Which of the following is closest to the slope of the line of best fit shown?
A. -1.84 B. -0.54 C. 0.54 D. 1.84
Answer: C
2773. What is an x-coordinate of an x-intercept of the graph of y = 2(x - 13)(x + 7)(x + 4) in the xy-plane?
Answer: 13
2779.

The three points shown define a circle. The circumference of this circle is k, where k is a constant. What is the value of k?
Answer: 8

2780. 3x + 2y = 10
How many solutions does the given system of equations have? A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero Answer: C

9x + 6y = 30

2785. 2x2 - 8x - 25 = 0

One solution to the given equation can be written as x

=

h-

1 2

k,

where

h

and

k

are

integer

constants.

What

is

the

value

of

h

+

k?

A. -32

B. 10

C. 33

D. 68

Answer: D

2920. Zuri has a goal to run at least 17 miles per week while training for a race. This week, she has run 7 miles. If x represents the additional number of miles Zuri
needs to run this week to meet her goal, which inequality represents this situation?
A. 7 - x  17 B. 7 + x  17 C. 7 - x  17 D. 7 + x  17
Answer: D

2936. The result of increasing the quantity x by 800% is 360. What is the value of x? A. 40 B. 45 C. 440 D. 2,880
Answer: A

3066. The equation d = 20w + 100 gives the total amount of money d, in dollars, that Janna plans to save w weeks after she starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars, she plans to save in 10 weeks? A. 250 B. 300 C. 350 D. 400
Answer: B

3070. g(x) = 2(14x - 15) What is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the graph of y = g(x) - 5 in the xy-plane? A. -35 B. -30 C. -20 D. -15
Answer: A

3074. Circle A: (x - 7)2 + (y - p)2 = 21

Circle B: (x + 7)2 + (y - p)2 = 21

In the given equations, p is a positive constant. Which statement correctly compares the graphs of circles A and B in the xy-plane?

A. Circle B is the reflection of circle A across the x-axis.

B. Circle B is the reflection of circle A across the y-axis.

C. Circle B is the translation of circle A 14 units up.

D. Circle B is the translation of circle A 14 units to the right.

Answer: B

3078. A linear function g is defined by g(x) = ax + b, where a and b are constants. If g(-2) = -7 and g(1) = 5, what is the value of a?
Answer: 4

3079. 2x2 - 8x - 21 = 0

One solution to the given equation can be written as x

=

h-

1 2

k,

where

h

and

k

are

integer

constants.

What

is

the

value

of

h

+

k?

A. -24

B. 10

C. 29

D. 60

Answer: D

3217. A student needs at least 90 signatures from classmates to run for class president. The student collects 85 signatures on Monday and collects enough additional signatures on Tuesday to run for class president. Which inequality represents the number of additional signatures, s, that the student collects on Tuesday? A. s + 85  90 B. s + 85  90 C. s - 85  90 D. s - 85  90
Answer: B

3220. There is a proportional relationship between p and t. If p = 6,720 when t = 8,960, then what is the value of t when p = 5,376? A. 7,616 B. 7,168 C. 4,032 D. 3,136
Answer: B

3227. In the ancient Roman measurement system, a leuga was a unit of length that was equal to 7,500 pedes. In this measurement system, how many pedes were equivalent to 3.8 leugas?
Answer: 28500

3365. A student needs at least 100 signatures from classmates to run for class president. The student collects 60 signatures on Monday and collects enough additional signatures on Tuesday to run for class president. Which inequality represents the number of additional signatures, s, that the student collects on Tuesday? A. s + 60  100 B. s + 60  100 C. s - 60  100 D. s - 60  100
Answer: B

3367. There is a proportional relationship between p and t. If p = 2,880 when t = 3,840, then what is the value of t when p = 2,304? A. 1,344 B. 1,728 C. 3,072 D. 3,264
Answer: C

3372. The scatterplot shows the relationship between two variables, x and y. A line of best fit for the data is also shown.

For how many of the 9 data points is the actual y-value greater than the y-value predicted by the line of best fit? A. 2 B. 4 C. 6 D. 8
Answer: B

3507. The equation d = 31w + 100 gives the total amount of money d, in dollars, that James plans to save w weeks after he starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars, he plans to save in 10 weeks? A. 360 B. 410 C. 460 D. 510
Answer: B
x
3508. The function f(x) = 1,400(0.5) 18 gives the predicted intensity of a beam f(x), in number of photons in the beam, x millimeters below the surface of a certain material. What is the best interpretation of f(18) = 700? A. A beam at the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 18 photons in the beam. B. A beam at the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 700 photons in the beam. C. A beam 18 millimeters below the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 700 photons in the beam. D. A beam 700 millimeters below the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 1,400 photons in the beam.
Answer: C

3509. (x - 12)(x - 7) = 0
Which value is a solution to the given equation?
A. 0 B. 12 C. 19 D. 84
Answer: B

3510. A survey of the daily commuting times, in minutes, of seven different Chicago-based employees at a certain company yielded a data set consisting of the
values 31, 12, 42, 33, 53, 24, and 45. A survey of the daily commuting times, in minutes, of seven different San Francisco-based employees at the same company yielded a data set consisting of the values 47, 31, 19, 33, 46, x, and 36. If the means of the two data sets are equal, what is the value of x?
Answer: 28

3511. A circle in the xy-plane has its center at (7, 1) and has a radius of length 5. Which equation represents this circle? A. (x + 7)2 + (y + 1)2 = 5 B. (x - 7)2 + (y - 1)2 = 5 C. (x + 7)2 + (y + 1)2 = 25 D. (x - 7)2 + (y - 1)2 = 25
Answer: D

3513. Triangle QRS is similar to triangle F GH

such that Q, R, and S correspond to F , G and H, respectively. Each side of triangle F GH

has

1 4

the length of its

corresponding side in triangle QRS. In triangle F GH, the measure of angle F is 10°, the measure of angle G is 8°, and F G = a. In triangle QRS, the measure of

angle Q is b° and QR = 40. What is the value of a + b?

Answer: 20

3514. Line h is defined by

1x+
3

1 y - 30
2

=

0. Line j is perpendicular to line h in the xy-plane. What is the slope of line j?

A. - 2
3

B. - 3
2

C. 2
3

D. 3
2

Answer: D

3517. If x - 3 = 5, what is the value of (x - 3)? A. 5 B. 22 C. 25 D. 50
Answer: C

3522. The result of increasing the quantity x by 400% is 140. What is the value of x? A. 28 B. 35 C. 260 D. 560
Answer: A

3525. The function f is defined by f(x) = 4x - 6. If f(a) + 1 = 3a, what is the value of a? A. 7 B. 5 C. 1 D. -1
Answer: B

3658. y = 8x - 16 5x + y = 23
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x + y?
Answer: 11

3659. What is the x-intercept of the graph of y = 21-x in the xy-plane, where a and b are positive constants?
ax+b

A. (21, 0)

B. (0, -21)

C. (0, 21b )

D.

(-

b a

,

0)

Answer: A

3668. The function f is defined by f(x) = 58(0.17)x. For any positive integer n, the value of f(n) is p% less than the value of f(n - 1). What is the value of p? A. 17 B. 42 C. 58 D. 83
Answer: D

3805.
xy 0r 2 r - 18 4 r - 36
For a linear relationship between x and y, the table gives three values of x and their corresponding values of y in terms of a constant r. What is the slope of the line in
the xy-plane that represents this relationship?
A. -18 B. -9 C. 9 D. 18
Answer: B

3806. 40(x - 1) = 5(-8 + 8x)
How many solutions does the given equation have? A. Zero B. Exactly one C. Exactly two D. Infinitely many
Answer: D

3811. If x - 1 = 2, what is the value of (x - 1)? A. 2 B. 3 C. 4 D. 8
Answer: C

3952.

A marine biologist is studying a habitat that contains shoal bass, a species of freshwater fish. The box plot shown summarizes the lengths, in centimeters (cm), of a
sample of 70 shoal bass from this habitat. What is the range, in cm, of the lengths of the shoal bass in the sample? A. 12 B. 17 C. 25 D. 45
Answer: B

3966. Line p in the xy-plane contains the points (23, 0) and (23, 23). Which equation defines line p? A. x = 23 B. x = 0 C. y = 23 D. y = 0
Answer: A
4098. Which expression is a factor of x4 + 14ax2 + 49a2 - 64, where a is a positive constant? A. x2 + 7a + 8 B. x2 - 7a - 8 C. x2 + 14a D. x2 - 8a
Answer: A
4108. The function f is defined by f(x) = 52(0.15)x. For any positive integer n, the value of f(n) is p% less than the value of f(n - 1). What is the value of p? A. 15 B. 48 C. 52 D. 85
Answer: D

4243. x + 6y = 27 6y = 14
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x?
Answer: 13

4253. In each of the following data sets of 5 values, p is a constant. Which of these data sets has the largest standard deviation? A. p - 5, p, p, p, p + 5 B. p - 10, p - 5, p, p + 5, p + 10 C. p, p, p, p, p D. p - 2, p - 2, p, p + 2, p + 2
Answer: B

4255. 2x2 - 12x - 19 = 0

One solution to the given equation can be written as x

=

h-

1 2

k,

where

h

and

k

are

integer

constants.

What

is

the

value

of

h

+

k?

A. 1

B. 14

C. 37

D. 77

Answer: D

4389.

In the figure, lines r and s are parallel. If x = 5k + 19 and y = 7k - 17, what is the value of k? A. 18 B. 71 C. 109 D. 162
Answer: A
4396. How many solutions does the equation 14(x + 19) + 5x = 19(x + 14) have?
A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero Answer: C
4397. What is 5% of 580? A. 575 B. 290 C. 116 D. 29
Answer: D
4400. 8x - 7y = 5 4x + y = 8
The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x + y?
Answer: 35/12
4408.
x g(x) -21 2 -9 0 15 4
f(x)
The table shows three values of x and their corresponding values of g(x), where g(x) = x+3 and f is a linear function. What is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of the graph of y = f(x) in the xy-plane?
Answer: 27
4538.

The shaded region shown represents the solutions to which inequality?
A. y < -4x + 6 B. y < 6x - 4 C. y > -4x + 6 D. y > 6x - 4
Answer: C

4551. A biologist mixed a solution that is 0.3% sodium chloride by mass with a solution that is 0.15% sodium chloride by mass to obtain a new solution, which has a mass of 150 grams and contains 0.36 grams of sodium chloride. How many grams of 0.3% sodium chloride solution did the biologist use? A. 0.24 B. 60 C. 90 D. 149.76
Answer: C

4554. Which expression is a factor of 25p15 - 121p13? A. -96p32 B. 11p - 5 C. 25p2 + 121 D. 5p + 11
Answer: D

4696. 2x2 - 16x - 21 = 0

One solution to the given equation can be written as x

=

h-

1 2

k,

where

h

and

k

are

integer

constants.

What

is

the

value

of

h

+

k?

A. 110

B. 53

C. 26

D. 18

Answer: A

4699. If x - 2 = 3, what is the value of (x - 2)? A. 3 B. 7 C. 9 D. 18
Answer: C

4830. The scatterplot shows the relationship between two variables, x and y.

Which of the following equations is the most appropriate linear model for the data shown?
A. y = 0.8 + 8.9x B. y = 0.8 - 8.9x C. y = 8.9 + 0.8x D. y = 8.9 - 0.8x
Answer: D

4831. During hibernation, American black bears do not eat or replenish calories. A certain black bear weighed 326 pounds when entering hibernation and lost weight at a mean rate of 0.8 pounds per day. At this rate, how many days after entering hibernation would the black bear weigh 270 pounds? A. 45 B. 56 C. 70 D. 216
Answer: C

4833. Line q is defined by y

=

-1x-
7

1 4

.

Line

r

is

perpendicular

to

line

q

in

the

xy-plane.

What

is

the

slope

of

line

r?

A. 11

B. 7

C. 4

D. 3

Answer: B

4836. How many solutions does the equation 13(x + 16) + 3x = 16(x + 13) have?
A. Exactly one B. Exactly two C. Infinitely many D. Zero
Answer: C

4840. y  x + 15 y  -2x - 15
Which point (x, y) is a solution to the given system of inequalities in the xy-plane? A. (-9, 3) B. (-9, 6) C. (-11, 3) D. (-11, 6)
Answer: D
4848. What is the y-intercept of the graph of y = ( 3 )x+1 in the xy-plane?
11
A. (3, 11) B. (0, 11) C. (0, 3) D. (0, 3 )
11
Answer: D

4977. The equation d = 27w + 100 gives the total amount of money d, in dollars, that Janna plans to save w weeks after she starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars, she plans to save in 10 weeks? A. 320 B. 370 C. 420 D. 470
Answer: B

4980. Line q is defined by y = - 1 x - 1 . Line r is perpendicular to line q in the xy-plane. What is the slope of line r?

8

6

A. 2

B. 6

C. 8

D. 14

Answer: C

4986. The height of a right circular cylinder is 21 inches, and the circumference of its base is 210 inches. Which expression represents the total surface area, in
square inches, of the cylinder?
A. (21)(210) + 2( 105 )2

B. (21)(210) + ( 105 )2

C. ( 105 )2(21)

D. (21)(210)
Answer: A

5127. In the xy-plane, the graph of y = 4x intersects the graph of y = x2 - 21 at two points. What is the sum of the x-coordinates of the two points of intersection? A. -21 B. -3 C. 4 D. 7
Answer: C

5128.

5x-
3

1y
4

=

27

x + 3y = -9

The solution to the given system of equations is (x, y). What is the value of x + y?

A. -9

B. -7

C. 7

D. 9

Answer: C

5132.
xy 0r 2 r - 28 4 r - 56
For a linear relationship between x and y, the table gives three values of x and their corresponding values of y in terms of a constant r. What is the slope of the line in
the xy-plane that represents this relationship?
A. -28 B. -14 C. 14 D. 28
Answer: B

5276.

The graph of the function f, where y = f(x), gives the total cost y, in dollars, for a certain video game system and x games. What is the best interpretation of the
slope of the graph in this context?
A. Each game costs $18. B. The video game system costs $18. C. Each game costs $150. D. The video game system costs $150.
Answer: A
5281. A certain town has an area of 4.37 square miles. What is the area, in square yards, of this town? (1 mile = 1,760 yards) A. 403 B. 7,691 C. 708,833 D. 13,536,512
Answer: D
5282. The function h is defined by h(x) = ax + b, where a and b are positive constants. The graph of y = h(x) in the xy-plane passes through the points (0, 11) and (2, 46). What is the value of ab? A. 46 B. 60 C. 66 D. 92
Answer: B
5430. The function h is defined by h(x) = x210x2 -4k2 - 5x x+2k , where k is a positive constant. What is the value of h( 16k 7 )? A. - 407 B. - 5
2
C. 16 D. 40
Answer: D
5565. A sample was selected at random from a population. Based on the sample, it is estimated that the mean value of a variable for this population is 217, with an associated margin of error of 1. Based on the estimate and associated margin of error, which of the following best describes the range of plausible values for the
population mean?
A. Any value between 215 and 217 B. Any value between 216 and 218 C. Any value less than 216 D. Any value greater than 218
Answer: B
5566.
In the figure shown, lines  and k are parallel and line t intersects both lines. If x > 125, which of the following must be true? A. y < 55 B. y > 55 C. x + y < 180 D. x + y > 180
Answer: A
5569. f(x) = 10(x2 + 53)
What is the minimum value of the given function?
A. 0.1 B. 5.3 C. 10 D. 530
Answer: D
5579. What is 5% of 880? A. 44 B. 176 C. 440 D. 875
Answer: A
5712. Zuri has a goal to run at least 13 miles per week while training for a race. This week, she has run 6 miles. If x represents the additional number of miles Zuri
needs to run this week to meet her goal, which inequality represents this situation?
A. 6 - x  13 B. 6 + x  13 C. 6 - x  13 D. 6 + x  13
Answer: D
5722.
Triangles ABC and ABC  are shown. Triangle ABC is dilated by a scale factor of 3 to form triangle ABC . If the length of AB is 15, what is the length of AB ? A. 45 B. 18 C. 5 D. 3
Answer: A
5729. f(x) = 11x10 + 3x8 g(x) = -15x7 + 7x5
The polynomial p(x) is defined as the product of the given polynomials, f(x) and g(x). What is the coefficient of x15 in p(x)? A. 122 B. 77 C. 32 D. 15
Answer: C
5870. x = 8 y = 24
x
The graphs of the equations in the given system intersect at the point (x, y) in the xy-plane. What is the value of y?

A. 192 B. 32 C. 16 D. 3
Answer: D

6007. If 8(2x + 4) = 6(2x + 4) + 52, what is the value of 2x + 4? A. 52 B. 26 C. 22 D. 11
Answer: B

6008.

y

350

300

250

200

150

100

50

x

O

50 100 150 200 250

50

100

150

200

The graph shows the estimated boiling point y, in degrees Celsius, of a straight-chain alkane with a molecular weight of x grams per mole, where 1  x  280. Which statement is the best interpretation of the point (169.39, 219.86)?

A. A straight-chain alkane with a molecular weight of 219.86 grams per mole has an estimated boiling point of 169.39 degrees Celsius.

B. A straight-chain alkane with a molecular weight of 169.39 grams per mole has an estimated boiling point of 219.86 degrees Celsius.

C. The minimum estimated boiling point for straight-chain alkanes corresponds to an alkane with a molecular weight of 169.39 grams per mole and an estimated boiling point of 219.86 degrees Celsius.

D. The maximum estimated boiling point for straight-chain alkanes corresponds to an alkane with a molecular weight of 169.39 grams per mole and an estimated boiling point of 219.86 degrees Celsius.

Answer: B

6010. 9x(x + 5) = r In the given equation, r is a positive constant. Which of the following must be true?
A. The equation has no real solutions. B. The equation has exactly one real solution. C. The equation has two distinct real solutions. D. There is not enough information to determine the number of real solutions to the equation. Answer: C
6011. 6(x - 9)2 = 600
What is the positive solution to the given equation? Answer: 19
6012. The function f is defined by f(x) = x+10 and f(a) = 19, where a is a constant. What is the value of a?
3
Answer: 47

6013. A museum exhibit displays 69 artifacts on day 1. On each following day, 7 artifacts are added to the exhibit. The function f(x) = 7(x - 1) + 69 represents this situation, where f(x) is the total number of artifacts exhibited at the end of day x. According to the function, what is the number of artifacts that have been added to the exhibit by the end of day x? A. 69 B. 7x C. 7x + 69 D. 7(x - 1)
Answer: D
6014. Which expression is equivalent to (2x + 9)2 - (x - 6)? A. 4x2 + 35x + 75 B. 4x2 + 35x + 87 C. 4x2 - x + 75 D. 4x2 - x + 87
Answer: B

6015. The combined original price for a towel and chair is $40. After a 35% discount to the towel and a 15% discount to the chair are applied, the combined sale price for the two items is $31. Which system of equations gives the original price t, in dollars, of the towel and the original price c, in dollars, of the chair? A. t + c = 40 0.85t + 0.65c = 31 B. t + c = 40 0.15t + 0.35c = 31 C. t + c = 40 0.65t + 0.85c = 31 D. t + c = 40 0.35t + 0.15c = 31
Answer: C

6017.

A line segment is shown in the xy-plane. If line  (not shown) is perpendicular to the line segment shown and passes through the point (0, 3), which equation defines
line ?
A. -5x + 8y = 24 B. 5x + 8y = 24 C. -8x + 5y = 15 D. 8x + 5y = 15
Answer: A

6018. To win a trivia game, a player needs to earn at least 80 total points from responding correctly to questions in two rounds of play. Correct responses in the first round are worth 3 points each, and correct responses in the second round are worth 7 points each. Which inequality represents the situation where the player does not win the game, where f is the number of correct responses in the first round and s is the number of correct responses in the second round? A. f + s < 80 B. 3f + 7s < 80 C. 7f + s > 80 D. 7f + 3s > 80
Answer: B

6020. The quantity b is the result of increasing the positive quantity a by 5%. If the result of decreasing the quantity b by 9% is 343.98, what is the value of a?
Answer: 360

6021.
x f(x) 1 -71 20 3 71
For the linear function f, the table shows three values of x and their corresponding values of f(x). Function f is defined by f(x) = ax + b, where a and b are constants. What is the value of a - b? A. -71 B. 69 C. 142 D. 213
Answer: D

6022. For an exponential function, the value of f(x) increases by 110% for every increase of

1 3

in the value of x. Which equation could define this function?

A. f(x) = (2.1)3x

x
B. f(x) = (2.1) 3

C. f(x) = (1.1)3x

x
D. f(x) = (1.1) 3

Answer: A

6024. A container has a volume of 0.83 cubic meters. Which of the following is closest to this volume, in quarts? (Note: 100.00 centimeters = 1 meter. Use 946.35 cubic centimeters = 1.00 quart.) A. 0.09 B. 7.85 C. 785.47 D. 877.05
Answer: D

6026. In isosceles triangle ABC, sides AB and AC are congruent. Point D divides side BC such that the length of BD is

2 3

of the length of BC. Point E lies on

side AB and point F lies on side AC such that when segments DE and DF are drawn, angle BED is congruent to angle CF D. If the length of BE is 12, what is

the length of CF ?

A. 6

B. 18

C. 48

D. 72

Answer: A

6027. The function h is defined by h(x) = -x2 + bx + c, where b and c are constants. In the xy-plane, the graph of y = h(x) contains the points (2, 0) and (0, -390). If h(m) = 0, what is the greatest possible value of m?
Answer: 195

6154. If 5(2x + 8) = 3(2x + 8) + 76, what is the value of 2x + 8? A. 76 B. 38 C. 30 D. 15
Answer: B

6156. A research study categorized 100 vehicles as either fuel efficient or fuel inefficient. If a vehicle from the study is selected at random, the probability of
selecting a vehicle that was categorized as fuel efficient is 64 . How many of the vehicles in the study were categorized as fuel efficient?
100
Answer: 64

6160. A museum exhibit displays 73 artifacts on day 1. On each following day, 3 artifacts are added to the exhibit. The function f(x) = 3(x - 1) + 73 represents this situation, where f(x) is the total number of artifacts exhibited at the end of day x. According to the function, what is the number of artifacts that have been added to the exhibit by the end of day x? A. 73 B. 3x C. 3x + 73 D. 3(x - 1)
Answer: D
6161. Which expression is equivalent to (3x + 7)2 - (x - 6)? A. 9x2 + 41x + 43 B. 9x2 + 41x + 55 C. 9x2 - x + 43 D. 9x2 - x + 55
Answer: B

6165.

A line segment is shown in the xy-plane. If line  (not shown) is perpendicular to the line segment shown and passes through the point (0, 4), which equation defines
line ?
A. -9x + 7y = 28 B. 9x + 7y = 28 C. -7x + 9y = 36 D. 7x + 9y = 36
Answer: A

6168.
x f(x) 1 -55 20 3 55
For the linear function f, the table shows three values of x and their corresponding values of f(x). Function f is defined by f(x) = ax + b, where a and b are constants. What is the value of a - b? A. -55 B. 53 C. 110 D. 165
Answer: D

6173. In isosceles triangle ABC, sides AB and AC are congruent. Point D divides side BC such that the length of BD is

3 7

of the length of BC. Point E lies on

side AB and point F lies on side AC such that when segments DE and DF are drawn, angle BED is congruent to angle CF D. If the length of BE is 9, what is

the length of CF ?

A. 12

B. 21

C. 27

D. 63

Answer: A

